United Nations S/PV.8839 Security Council Provisional Seventy-sixth year 8839th meeting Thursday, 19 August 2021, 10 a.m. New York President: Mr. Jaishankar. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (India) Members: China. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Dai Bing Estonia. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Lipand France . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mrs. Broadhurst Estival Ireland. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ms. Byrne Nason Kenya. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Kimani Mexico. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mrs. Buenrostro Massieu Niger. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Aougi Norway . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Kvalheim Russian Federation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Nebenzia Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ms. Prince Tunisia. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Ladeb United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . . Mr. Kariuki United States of America. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mrs. Thomas-Greenfield Viet Nam . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Pham Agenda Threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts Thirteenth report of the Secretary-General on the threat posed by ISIL (Da’esh) to international peace and security and the range of United Nations efforts in support of Member States in countering the threat (S/2021/682) This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches delivered in other languages. The final text will be printed in the Official Records of the Security Council. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 (verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org). 21-23024 (E) *2123024* S/PV.8839 Threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts 19/08/2021 The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m. threat (S/2021/682), as mandated by resolution 2368 (2017). I am pleased that Assistant Secretary-General Adoption of the agenda Michèle Coninsx is joining me today, unfortunately only on the screen, to present the report, which our The agenda was adopted. Offices prepared jointly with the Analytical Support and Sanctions Monitoring Team, led by Mr. Edmund Threats to international peace and security caused Fitton-Brown. I take this opportunity to salute the by terrorist acts excellent work of the Monitoring Team, which recently Thirteenth report of the Secretary-General produced its own twenty-eighth report on the threat on the threat posed by ISIL (Da’esh) to posed by Da’esh and Al-Qaida (see S/2021/655). international peace and security and the range We all are witnessing the rapidly evolving situation of United Nations efforts in support of Member in Afghanistan, which could have far-reaching States in countering the threat (S/2021/682) implications for peace and security around the world. The President: In accordance with rule 39 It is therefore welcome that Mr. Davood Moradian will of the Council’s provisional rules of procedure, I also brief the Security Council today. I would like to invite the following briefers to participate in this echo the Secretary-General’s appeal to the Security meeting: Mr. Vladimir Voronkov, Under-SecretaryCouncil earlier this week to use all the tools at its General, United Nations Office of Counter-Terrorism; disposal to prevent Afghanistan from being used as a Ms. Michèle Coninsx, Executive Director, Counterplatform or a safe haven for terrorism. In that regard, Terrorism Committee Executive Directorate; and let us remember that several members of the Taliban Mr. Davood Moradian, Director General, Afghan remain designated terrorists, according to the sanctions Institute for Strategic Studies. regime under resolution 1988 (2011). I also note the concerns expressed by some Security Council members The Security Council will now begin its with regard to the release of prisoners affiliated to consideration of the item on its agenda. Al-Qaida and Da’esh. I wish to draw the attention of Council members Despite the most recent developments in to document S/2021/682, which contains the thirteenth Afghanistan, the Secretary-General’s thirteenth report report of the Secretary-General on the threat posed on Da’esh remains valid. Its emphasis on the interplay by ISIL (Da’esh) to international peace and security between armed conflict, State fragility and terrorism and the range of United Nations efforts in support of and Afghanistan is no exception. The report also notes Member States in countering the threat. that Da’esh has expanded its presence in Afghanistan. I now give the floor to Mr. Voronkov. We will need to ensure that Afghanistan is never again used as a launching pad for global terrorism. Globally, Mr. Voronkov: I would like to start by expressing the threat posed by Da’esh to international peace and my sincere condolences to the Governments and the security during the period under consideration has people of all Member States that have recently suffered remained significant and steady over the past six from any form or manifestation of terrorism. My months, raising serious international concerns. Da’esh heartfelt thoughts and sympathies go to the survivors has continued to exploit the disruption, grievances and the families of the victims. and development setbacks caused by the pandemic Tomorrow, we will commemorate the fourth to regroup, recruit new followers and intensify its International Day of Remembrance of and Tribute to activities, both online and on the ground. Its core in the Victims of Terrorism, with the participation of the Iraq and Syria still has access to significant hidden Secretary-General. Let us work every day to prevent financial reserves, estimated at between $25 million and alleviate the pain and suffering that terrorism and $50 million. Da’esh has further decentralized its causes. I thank the Security Council for the opportunity governance and the additional autonomy, capacity to present the thirteenth report of the Secretary-General and confidence gained by its regional affiliates could on the threat posed by ISIL (Da’esh) to international provide the group with new options, including the peace and security and the range of United Nations orchestration of international attacks and shaping the efforts in support of Member States in countering the future global impact of Da’esh. 2/24 21-23024 19/08/2021 Threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts S/PV. 8839 Coronavirus disease-related lockdowns in many to facilitate whole-of-United Nations support areas were more comprehensive in early 2021 than in to requesting Member States on the protection, 2020, but it is conceivable that attacks have been planned voluntary repatriation, prosecution, rehabilitation and for when restrictions ease. There is an increased threat reintegration of individuals with suspected links to of attacks by lone actors or small groups inspired and United Nations-designated terrorist groups returning possibly directed remotely by Da’esh, including online. from Iraq and Syria. We have already begun employing that framework mechanism in support of Kazakhstan, Only through cooperative measures between and Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan and a scoping within countries, including civil society and the private sector, can we counter the terrorist threat online. exercise has been undertaken to support Iraq. I welcome, in that regard, the first ever high-level The report of the Secretary-General describes debate held on 29 June by the Council on cybersecurity that the most alarming development over the past six (see S/2021/621), as well as initiatives taken at the months has been the spread of Da’esh in Africa, with regional level. spillover from Mali into Burkina Faso and the Niger Da’esh remains focused on reconstituting its and incursions from Nigeria into the Niger, Chad and capabilities in Iraq and Syria, organized in small Cameroon and from Mozambique into Tanzania. A cells hiding in deserts and rural areas that wage an global response is urgently needed to support the efforts insurgency against security forces while they move of African countries and regional organizations to across the border between two countries to avoid counter terrorism and address its interplay with conflict, capture. However, it is the lack of a comprehensive organized crime and governance and development solution to the situation of thousands of individuals gaps, as underscored by a wide range of Member States with alleged links to Da’esh who remained stranded during the second United Nations Counter-Terrorism in Iraq and Syria that could shape the future terrorist Week, which was held from 28-30 June in New York. threat landscape over the medium to long term, not just Da’esh affiliates in the Greater Sahara have killed locally but globally. several hundred civilians since the beginning of the The conditions in detention facilities and year in large-scale attacks in Mali, Burkina Faso and the displacement camps in north-eastern Syria have Niger. The so-called Islamic State West Africa Province further deteriorated, especially in Al-Hol camp. will likely gain from the weakening of Boko Haram. Several instances of escapes, terrorist radicalization, The situation in the wider region could be aggravated fundraising, arms smuggling, training and incitement by the relocation of terrorists and other foreign fighters continue to be reported, as well as killings and enforced from Libya. The expansion of Da’esh in Central Africa, disappearances. Thousands of children caught in that especially in northern Mozambique, could have farlimbo, through no fault of their own, continue to have reaching implications for peace and security in the their rights abused and violated on a daily basis. region and needs to be addressed through a coherent regional approach as a matter of priority, as the group’s I welcome the efforts of Member States that affiliates may seek to exploit intercommunal disputes have repatriated their citizens since my most recent and illicit trafficking activities. briefing to the Council in February (see S/2021/140). However, the pace is too slow considering the scale of In Europe, the threat from Da’esh has continued the humanitarian, human rights and strategic security to be suppressed by pandemic-related restrictions. The priority, which only grows more complex as time threat of terrorist attacks by lone actors radicalized and passes. I think that developments in Afghanistan could incited online, especially vulnerable youth, remains the create an even more dangerous environment in those primary concern, along with terrorist radicalization camps, with unpredictable consequences. I reiterate the in prisons. Secretary-General’s call upon Member States for the Assistant Secretary-General Coninsx will brief voluntary repatriation of all concerned individuals, with the Council shortly on the support provided in recent particular focus on children, in line with international months by the United Nations system to Member States law and with the consent of relevant Governments. in addressing the threat posed by Da’esh. My Office Next month, we will formally launch the global has continued to work closely with all our partners to framework that my Office coordinates with UNICEF ensure business continuity during the pandemic and to 21-230243/24 S/PV.8839 Threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts 19/08/2021 advance the implementation of our global programmes the Security Council remain as critical today as they and projects tailored to address the needs of Member were in 2001 in confronting terrorism in a sustained, States. Those efforts are supported through our collective, effective and principled manner that upholds presence in the field, as requested by Member States, the rule of law, human rights and gender equality and including our Programme Office for Counter-Terrorism safeguards humanitarian action. and Training in Africa in Rabat and the Programme Office on Parliamentary Engagement in Doha, which This year also marks the fifteenth anniversary were launched in June in partnership with Morocco and of the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Qatar respectively. Strategy and the tenth anniversary of the United Nations Counter-Terrorism Centre within my Office. Our Global Programme on Detecting, Preventing I was highly encouraged, therefore, by the success of and Countering the Financing of Terrorism, in response our second Counter-Terrorism Week in June, during to resolution 2462 (2019), leads on a joint initiative which Member States actively engaged at the second with the Global Counter-Terrorism Forum to identify High-level Conference of Heads of Counter-Terrorism and disseminate good practices to effectively counter Agencies of Member States, convened by the Secretaryterrorist financing while safeguarding civic space. General, and the consensus adoption by the General The United Nations Countering Terrorist Travel Assembly of the comprehensive and forward-looking programme, led by my Office to help Member States resolution 75/291, on the seventh review of the United establish advanced passenger information and Nations Global Terrorism Strategy. passenger name record systems, in line with resolutions That bodes well for our collective efforts and 2178 (2014), 2396 (2017) and 2482 (2019), now counts badly for Da’esh and other terrorists. The United 43 beneficiaries. The programme held three virtual Nations system, through the Global Counter-Terrorism assessments for Djibouti, Mongolia and South Africa Coordination Compact, stands ready to support the and interactive online trainings for Sierra Leone, The Security Council and all Member States. I look forward Gambia and States members of the Southern African to the Council’s guidance as we transition into a new Development Community. We also completed a series decade of counter-terrorism. of virtual study visits to Belgium, Colombia, Norway, the Russian Federation and Spain for the beneficiaries The President: I thank Mr. Voronkov for of our global programme on national-level interagency his briefing. coordination mechanisms or fusion cells and launched, I now give the floor to Ms. Coninsx. in January, a new global programme on countering terrorist threats against vulnerable targets. Ms. Coninsx: I am grateful for the opportunity The year 2021 is one of milestones in the to brief the Security Council on the thirteenth report international fight against terrorism. There is no better of the Secretary-General on the threat posed by the time for Member States to recommit themselves to Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) (Da’esh) multilateral action against terrorism under the auspices (S/2021/682) and the continued efforts of the United of the United Nations. Twenty years ago, in the wake of Nations and Member States to counter the threat. I the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks by Al-Qaida, also thank Under-Secretary-General Voronkov for the Security Council provided momentous leadership his briefing and commend both the United Nations and guidance with the adoption of its landmark Office of Counter-Terrorism (UNOCT) and the resolution 1373 (2001) and the establishment of the Analytical Support and Sanctions Monitoring Team, Committee established pursuant to resolution 1373 led by Mr. Edmund Fitton-Brown, for their invaluable (2001) concerning counter-terrorism. contributions to the report. Today, we face transnational terrorist threats, like As Under-Secretary-General Voronkov rightly said, those of Da’esh and Al-Qaida, which are enduring and we all are witnessing the rapidly evolving situation in able to adapt to new technologies, as well as expanding Afghanistan. I also echo the Secretary-General’s appeal to include individuals and groups that commit terrorist to the Security Council to take all possible steps to attacks connected to xenophobia, racism and other ensure that the situation in Afghanistan does not result forms of intolerance. The unity and leadership of in the country being used as a safe haven for terrorism. 4/24 21-23024 19/08/2021 Threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts S/PV. 8839 Despite the welcome progress on the roll-out international counter-terrorism efforts. In that regard, of vaccines, the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) I welcomed the discussions held during recent hybrid pandemic has continued to have negative impacts assessment visits conducted for the Counter-Terrorism across most hotspot areas for the past months. However, Committee and the Security Council during this year’s as we outlined in the most recently updated analytical Counter-Terrorism Week and its side events on new paper by the Counter-Terrorism Committee Executive threats and challenges and how best to marshal our Directorate (CTED), published in June 2021, the impact collective efforts to address them. of COVID-19 on terrorism and counter-terrorism has been more mixed. I also welcomed the Counter-Terrorism Committee’s approval of the revised overview In many non-conflict zones, pandemic-related of implementation assessment and the electronic restrictions have continued to help suppress terrorist detailed implementation survey in March, which were activity. In conflict zones, however, where the impact of developed by CTED in accordance with resolution 2395 pandemic-related restrictions is limited, the increasing (2017). Those new and local tools will help CTED to interplay among terrorism, fragility and conflict has improve monitoring the implementation of the relevant caused the terrorist threat to grow. Indeed, Da’esh and Security Council resolutions by Member States in a its affiliates continue to pose a significant threat in timely manner and will enhance CTED’s quantitative West, East and Central Africa and Afghanistan, while and qualitative critical capacities and capabilities. simultaneously prioritizing their efforts to regroup and They are also expected to support Members States in resurge in Iraq and the Syrian Arab Republic. CTED’s their efforts to adopt comprehensive and integrated analytical paper also emphasizes the pandemic’s counter-terrorism approaches. growing impact on humanitarian programming across the world, including in Iraq and the Syrian Arab It is also important to reflect on other examples Republic. We continue to be concerned about the dire of progress made over the past six months. Criminal situation faced by those individuals, mainly women and justice responses, international judicial cooperation children, with presumed links to Da’esh. and the development of comprehensive and tailored prosecution, rehabilitation and reintegration strategies Through the virtual component of the Counterhave continued to be significant priorities for CTED and Terrorism Committee’s recent hybrid assessment visits many of our United Nations partners. In cooperation to both Iraq and Member States from which foreign with the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime terrorist fighters have travelled to the conflict zones, CTED has continued to monitor compliance with the (UNODC) and UNOCT, CTED has supported efforts to relevant Security Council resolutions. Although United increase cooperation in investigations and prosecutions Nations entities continue to promote the safe, voluntary at the national and local levels in Nigeria and the Lake and human-rights compliant return of foreign nationals Chad basin. from Iraq and the Syrian Arab Republic, many remain In March, CTED, UNOCT and UNODC jointly stranded in crowded camps, with limited access to held a regional workshop that promoted genderessential services, due process and a fair trial. responsive approaches to prosecution, rehabilitation Those concerns have only been exacerbated by the and reintegration in the Lack Chad basin. There has pandemic. The Secretary-General’s report highlights also been welcome progress in the development of violence in the camps, forced disappearances and other good practices in international and regional counterhuman rights abuses as serious concerns, in addition terrorism operations, including in relation to judicial to the forced returns, the prevention of return and the cooperation, mutual legal assistance and extradition in discriminatory treatment of families with a perceived terrorism cases. link to Da’esh. Further efforts are needed to create the CTED and its partners further supported Maldives conditions under which social cohesion can be promoted and the Philippines in the use of the internet and social and further Da’esh violence prevented, while ensuring media in counter-terrorism investigations. CTED, respect for human rights and the rule of law. together with UNODC, continued to tailor their South Those challenges remind us yet again of the Asia Regional Toolkit for Judges to the national contexts critical need for us to strengthen national, regional and of Maldives and Pakistan. 21-230245/24 S/PV.8839 Threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts 19/08/2021 CTED’s analysis suggests that terrorists and 1373 (2001) — a landmark resolution, as described terrorist groups, including Da’esh, are exploring by Mr. Voronkov — will serve as a forum for further alternative methods of moving funds, owing to the enhancing and strengthening our multilateral counterimpact of pandemic-related measures on money-transfer terrorism efforts. networks. The use of social media crowdfunding campaigns for Da’esh fighters and their relatives in The President: I thank Ms. Coninsx for her briefing. camps in the Syrian Arab Republic also remains an I now give the floor to Mr. Moradian, who, I ongoing challenge. believe, was in Kabul until a few days ago. To address those challenges, CTED, in cooperation Mr. Moradian: It is a great honour for me to have with other United Nations entities, continues to the opportunity to share my perspective on the threat work together with the Financial Action Task Force of Da’esh to international security in this forum. In the (FATF), FATF-style regional bodies and the Global light of the unfolding catastrophe and humanitarian Counterterrorism Forum. Due to the terrorism crisis in Afghanistan, I will also bring in the Afghan financing risk associated with the illicit trade in tragedy and factors given the context of today’s briefing. natural resources, CTED, together with the United Nations Counter-Terrorism Centre, supported the In fewer than three weeks, the world will witness Eastern and Southern Africa Anti-Money Laundering and commemorate the tragic and painful twentieth Group in implementing its regional operational plan for anniversary of the 11 September terrorist attacks, which combating the financing of terrorism. CTED continued gave birth to our collective struggle against terrorism. to play a key role in facilitating technical assistance, The fact that the Security Council is holding a regular including by leading virtual consultation missions, session on Da’esh in August is testimony to the fact which fall under the all-of-United Nations approach, that the world has collectively failed to deal with the the Office of Counter-Terrorism and the United Nations threat of terrorism after 20 years, despite allocating Counter-Terrorism Centre global programmes and by abundant resources in blood and treasure. I would like supporting activities on topics, including the terrorismto offer my own reflections and analysis on some of the arms-crime nexus, the protection of vulnerable targets, reasons for our collective failure. I will begin in my fusion cells and countering terrorist travel. CTED own field — the academic world. and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime also held a workshop to promote the relevant Security There is hardly any reasonable consensus and Council resolutions and offer expertise to Nigerian law intellectual agreement on the very definition and enforcement officers in the application of international understanding of terrorism. The diversity of names and best practices, regarding intelligence collection. labels to describe militant Islamist movements indicate that conceptual confusion. Names and labels include Da’esh and its affiliates remain a significant jihadist, Salafi, fundamentalist, Islamic terrorist, concern and threat to international peace and security. extremist, violent extremist, Islamo-fascist, insurgent, The upcoming joint open briefing on the Islamic State barbarian, terrorist, foreign terrorist and international in Iraq and the Levant and Africa, on 18 October, will allow us to further explore the recent evolution of such terrorism, as well as others. affiliates on the African continent. A comprehensive, The failure of the Islamic world to own its share coordinated One United Nations approach remains of responsibility is the other important reason for crucial to developing and implementing effective our collective failure. While the bulk of terrorist counter-terrorism measures, while also addressing the perpetrators and victims have been Muslims, sadly, conditions conducive to the spread of terrorism and those in the Islamic world have remained passive violent extremism. Of course, we must do so while observers in articulating a consistent, credible and ensuring that our multilateral counter-terrorism efforts constructive narrative about an existential threat to do no harm. Muslims’ well-being and security. The intellectual In closing, I would like to express my hope that and political stagnation of our religious, cultural and the forthcoming Counter-Terrorism Committee special educational institutions have immensely contributed meeting, to be held on 13 September, marking the to the rise of extremism and the failure of defensive twentieth anniversary of the adoption of resolution measures against the threat in the Islamic world. 6/24 21-23024 19/08/2021 Threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts S/PV. 8839 Let me bring in the role of the most privileged terrorism. The take-over of Kabul by the Taliban, members of international system — referred to as on the eve of twentieth anniversary of 9/11, will be member States — in our collective failure. The remembered as a historic benchmark and turning point. overwhelming approach to terrorism has been to treat It is natural to be fascinated by the symbolic coincidence it as a non-State phenomenon and independent from a of the two anniversaries or intellectual discussion about State-centric international system. However, in reality, the definition of terrorism or to engage in political terrorism is a product of the State system and one or debate about the blame game. But what we must focus other State tends to be behind or above a given terrorist on is the humanitarian dimension and the unfolding group. In some cases, there is a group of like-minded catastrophe. As the President stated earlier, I was at States that supports militant groups, as was the case Kabul airport when desperate passengers held back with the Mujahideen during the Soviet invasion of departing airplanes belonging to the United States, Afghanistan. Da’esh would not have survived and including my own airplane, which was due to leave flourished, had it not been for the support that it that airport. It was a scene of sheer human desperation, receives from some member States. helplessness and fear. One of the passengers who fell to the ground from a flying airplane was reportedly Sadly, the United Nations system protects its a member of Afghanistan’s national football team. guilty members that engage in proxy wars against their These passengers were not alone in their desperation regional and global adversaries by utilizing terrorism and fear; they represent millions of Afghans from as a State policy. The disconnect between United diverse backgrounds, from women rights activists to Nations analytical reports and United Nations political destitute farmers. statements and actions show the inability of the United Nations to confront the State sponsorship of terrorism. The world must step in to avert and mitigate an apocalyptic humanitarian tragedy. To this end, the Our global struggle against terrorism can also United Nations must go beyond its usual approach be compared and contrasted with our other global and declare the situation an urgent humanitarian crisis struggle against the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) under the provisions of Chapter VII of the United pandemic. In our recent struggle, we have witnessed Nations Charter and undertake serious and urgent the phenomenon of vaccine nationalism, in which rich deliberation with a view to declaring Kabul a safe zone nations choose self-interest over collective interests. protected by a United Nations peacekeeping mission. Despite the rhetoric of fighting all forms of terrorism, That would allow the opposing factions to come to an sadly, many Governments have chosen to focus on their inclusive political settlement, while working to mitigate own terrorists, rather than on the integrated nature of the unfolding catastrophe. global terrorism. The case of Afghanistan is a prime example of the contradictory approach to dealing I use the word “catastrophe” very intentionally with terrorism. Many have recommended political because I was in a very catastrophic situation in Kabul means to deal with the Taliban, while advocating just 48 hours ago. It is therefore not an exaggeration military solutions for other like-minded groups such as when I use the word “catastrophe”. The word has also Al-Qaida, Da’esh, the Pakistani Taliban and the Eastern been used by the Secretary-General in recent remarks Turkistan Islamic Movement. to the Council. If there is utility and wisdom in a political approach The crisis of Afghanistan during the last four to the Taliban, why should it not be extended to other decades has shown that a military solution is just groups or the other way around? All those groups share a brief pause before the next phase of the war. The fundamental characteristics with one another, despite Taliban and their regional partners, particularly the differences in the scope of their activities. Again, using Islamic Republic of Pakistan, should reflect on the the COVID-19 analogy, there are variants of the same principal role they are playing either in mitigating or original phenomenon, which have mutated to different in accelerating a catastrophic situation in Afghanistan, degrees of lethality and versions, as with the Alpha, which is an outcome that will determine our decadesBeta and Delta variants. old struggle against terrorism. Terrorism, 11 September and Afghanistan have The President: I thank Mr. Moradian for become defining names in global conversation about his briefing. 21-230247/24 S/PV.8839 Threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts 19/08/2021 I shall now make a statement in my capacity as the in strength, particularly, as we heard from the briefers, Minister for External Affairs of India. in Africa. The financial resource mobilization of ISIL (Da’esh) has become more robust. The flow of funds Let me begin by thanking Mr. Vladimir Voronkov, has continued, and rewards for killings, I believe, are Under-Secretary-General, United Nations Office now being paid even in bitcoin. The radicalization of of Counter-Terrorism, and Ms. Michèle Coninsx, vulnerable youth by systematic online propaganda Assistant Secretary-General and Executive Director campaigns remains a serious concern. of the Counter-Terrorism Committee Executive Directorate, for their briefings on the thirteenth report In our own immediate neighbourhood, the Islamic of the Secretary-General on the threat posed by the State in Iraq and the Levant-Khorasan has become Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) (Da’esh) to more energetic and is constantly seeking to expand its international peace and security (S/2021/682). I wish to footprint. This should be taken seriously. reiterate my thanks to Mr. Moradian, Director General Events unfolding in Afghanistan have naturally of the Afghan Institute for Strategic Studies, for joining enhanced global concerns about their implications for us remotely today. both regional and international security. The heightened On the day after tomorrow, the world will be activities of the proscribed Haqqani Network justify commemorating the fourth International Day of this growing anxiety. Whether it is in Afghanistan or Remembrance and Tribute to the Victims of Terrorism. against India, such groups as Lashkar-e-Tayyiba and Next month, it will be 20 years since the horrific Jaish-e-Mohammed continue to operate with both 11 September tragedy in New York. We in India have impunity and encouragement. It is therefore vital that had more than our fair share of both challenges and the Security Council does not take a selective, tactical casualties. The 2008 Mumbai terror attack is imprinted or even a complacent view of the problems we face. on our memories. The 2016 Pathankot air base attack We must never countenance sanctuaries for terrorists and the 2019 suicide bombing of our policemen at or overlook their raising of resources, and when we Pulwama are even more recent. Let me therefore see State hospitality being extended to those with express my solidarity with victims and their families innocents’ blood on their hands, we should never lack all over the world who have suffered and continue to the courage to call out this double-speak. suffer from the scourge of terrorism. We must never We heard from the briefers about the aggravating compromise with this evil. impact of the pandemic. What is true of the coronavirus The international community holds a collective disease is even more true of terrorism: none of us are view that terrorism in all its forms and manifestations safe until all of us are safe. must be condemned. There cannot be any exception or Insofar as ISIL is concerned, its modus operandi has any justification for any act of terrorism, regardless of changed, with the core focusing on regaining ground in the motivations behind such acts. We also recognize Syria and Iraq and affiliates functioning independently. that the menace of terrorism cannot be and should not This evolving phenomenon is extremely dangerous and be associated with any religion, nationality, civilization poses a new set of challenges to our collective efforts in or ethnic group. However, in spite of the progress we our fight against ISIL and terrorism. have made to tighten the legal, security, financing and other frameworks to combat terrorism, terrorists are In January 2021, when I had an opportunity to constantly finding newer ways to motivate, resource address the Council — virtually, at that time — I proposed an eight-point action plan for consideration and execute acts of terror. Unfortunately, there are also (see S/2021/48). Let me reiterate some of its cardinal some countries that seek to undermine or subvert our principles : first, to summon the political will — we collective resolve to fight terrorism. This cannot be must not justify terrorism or glorify terrorists; second, allowed to pass. to prohibit double standards — terrorists are terrorists, The latest report of the Secretary-General has and distinctions can only be made at our own peril; provided another stark reminder to all of us that third, to refrain from placing blocks and holds on listing ISIL (Da’esh) continues to pose a critical threat to requests without any reason; fourth, to discourage international peace and security. ISIL (Da’esh) remains exclusivist thinking and be on guard against new active in Syria and Iraq, and its affiliates are growing terminologies and false priorities; fifth, to enlist and 8/24 21-23024 19/08/2021 Threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts S/PV. 8839 delist objectively, not based on political or religious enforcement, the judicial sector and communities in considerations; sixth, to recognize the linkage to our partner nations to respond to that growing threat. organized crime; seventh, to support and strengthen In June, ISIS-Khorasan attacked a HALO Trust the Financial Action Task Force; and, eighth, to camp in northern Afghanistan, killing 10 people and provide greater funding to the United Nations Office of injuring 16. That attack on a humanitarian group, Counter-Terrorism. working to rid the country of landmines, shows the I call on the Council to collectively build on these barbarity of ISIS-Khorasan and its efforts to undermine principles. It is also therefore important to end the the Afghan people’s security. Given the ongoing events stalemate preventing the adoption of a comprehensive in Afghanistan, we are monitoring this situation very convention on international terrorism, which India has carefully. As President Biden has stressed, we will championed for so long. India has been at the forefront hold the Taliban accountable for its commitments not of global counter-terrorism efforts, taken part in all to allow any terrorists to threaten the United States or major global initiatives against international terrorism its allies from Afghan soil. As I said earlier this week, and is party to all United Nations sectoral conventions we must all work together to ensure that Afghanistan relating to terrorism. We were pleased to play our cannot ever again be a base for terrorism. role in strengthening the Global Counter-Terrorism While such threats are real, there is good news. The Strategy adopted last month (General Assembly Secretary-General’s report notes that ISIS financial resolution 75/291). We reiterate our full support for reserves are on a downward trajectory. That is, in counter-terrorism cooperation under the auspices of the part, thanks to the hard and valiant work of the United United Nations. Nations, in cooperation with other multilateral bodies. I now resume my functions as President of We must continue those efforts. Undercutting the the Council. financing of ISIS and other terrorist organizations is one of the most effective ways to defeat them. Let us Mrs. Thomas-Greenfield (United States of therefore sharpen our focus and strengthen our efforts America): Today’s meeting is an important opportunity to go after terrorist financiers and financial facilitators, to discuss the threat posed by the Islamic State of Iraq including virtual currencies and new payment methods. and the Sham (ISIS) and the actions that we are all taking to prevent and counter terrorism. Our thanks To that end, the United States continues to believe in go to Under-Secretary-General Voronkov, Assistant the strength of sanctions and the unique role of the ISIS Secretary-General Coninsx and Mr. Moradian for and Al-Qaida sanctions regime under resolution 1267 their informative briefings today. I would also like to (1999). It is the most effective global tool to proscribe thank the Analytical Support and Sanctions Monitoring specific ISIS branches, members and support entities. Team, the Counter-Terrorism Committee Executive As it has since its creation in 1999, the 1267 sanctions Directorate, the United Nations Office of Counterregime must continue to evolve to ensure that it remains Terrorism and the other United Nations entities that a credible counter-terrorism tool. But that evolution can contributed to the report (S/2021/682). never come at the expense of dulling its ability to apply effective pressure on ISIS and Al-Qaida. Today I would like to discuss the current state of the threat posed by ISIS and everything that we can As we apply that financial pressure, we must do to counter that threat, especially by undercutting remember that the most successful counter-terrorism its finances. To start, we are deeply worried by the approaches incorporate perspectives and voices Secretary-General’s assessment that ISIS continues to beyond those in the national Governments and local expand throughout Africa, especially in various parts administrations. We need to listen to the people of West Africa and the Sahel, in addition to Central and affected by terrorism on the ground. That includes East Africa. To neutralize that expansion, the United women, young people, civil society, religious leaders, States is providing critical counter-terrorism assistance educators, the private sector, victims of terrorism to disrupt, degrade and respond to terrorist activity and affected communities. Some of the people and perpetrated by ISIS. Our tactical training, mentorship organizations closest to the threat understand it better and equipment strengthens the capacity of the law than anyone. 21-230249/24 S/PV.8839 Threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts 19/08/2021 To bolster that kind of civil society engagement, In that context, Tunisia expresses its deep concern the United States provides funding to the Strong Cities about the increased terrorist threats, especially in the Networks, the Global Community and Engagement Sahel region and in West, East and Central Africa, where Resilience Fund, mother schools and many other groups affiliated with Da’esh and Al-Qaida continue to civil society organizations that work to strengthen extend their control on the ground, including over ports community resilience against violent extremism. and border areas, in addition to their ability to mobilize financial resources, weapons and advanced equipment, Finally, let us address the difficult issue of the such as drones. approximately 2,000 foreign terrorist fighters in detention centres. About 60,000 of their associated As the Secretary-General’s report indicates, the family members, mostly women and children, are increase in such threats is largely due to the attempts stranded in displaced persons camps. That includes by Da’esh to decentralize its power, whose core has tens of thousands of innocent children. No child become fragile. Da’esh therefore relies more on regional should suffer for their parents’ crimes. That situation branches in an attempt to reorganize its ranks, following is untenable. It is a humanitarian crisis, a human rights its military defeat in Iraq and Syria, without completely crisis and a security crisis. abandoning the main aim of the organization, which is to restore its central control on the ground. The United States believes that the repatriation and prosecution, as appropriate, of those foreign terrorist We are also following with concern the security fighters is the best way to hold individuals accountable situation in Afghanistan, especially in the light of for their crimes and to prevent their uncontrolled return reports that state that a significant number of terrorists affiliated with Da’esh and Al-Qaida have been released to countries of origin or elsewhere. To be clear, we do from Afghan prisons. not exclude ourselves in that call; we are repatriating our own, as well. Terrorist financing remains one of the most serious threats to all nations. In addition to the significant The Secretary-General’s report provides a stark financial resources available to both Da’esh and outline of the shifting ISIS threat, but it offers hope and Al-Qaida, new technologies are now increasingly a way forward, too. Together, we can stop the spread being used, as stated in the report, to finance of ISIS in Africa, counter its presence elsewhere and terrorist activities, including cryptocurrencies, digital undercut its finances. We can listen closely to civil currencies and virtual banks, as well as the ongoing society. We can address the humanitarian crises caused reliance on organized crime, particularly through the by foreign terrorist fighters. Together, we can work illicit antiquities trade and trafficking in drugs and towards stamping out the ISIS threat once and for all. precious metals. Mr. Ladeb (Tunisia) (spoke in Arabic): At the In this context, Tunisia reiterates its call for the outset, I would like to thank Mr. Vladimir Voronkov, necessary attention to continue to be paid to the issue Under-Secretary-General and Head of the United of addressing the financing of terrorism, particularly Nations Office of Counter-Terrorism; Ms. Michèle through the exchange of expertise in the field of Coninsx, Executive Director of the Counter-Terrorism monitoring and tracking terrorist crimes associated Committee Executive Directorate; and Mr. Davood with the use of digital currencies and cryptocurrencies. Moradian, Director General of the Afghan Institute for Strategic Studies, for their valuable briefings. While terrorist groups affiliated with Da’esh and Al-Qaida have not yet been able to establish within their The report of the Secretary-General (S/2021/682) goals clear strategies to harness the coronavirus disease before us is the thirteenth such report since the adoption (COVID-19) pandemic, it is nevertheless necessary to of resolution 2253 (2015). However, the Islamic State continue to take into consideration the repercussions of Iraq and the Sham (Da’esh), Al-Qaida and other of this pandemic in the short, medium and long terms terrorist organizations remain a serious threat to when monitoring and tackling these threats. We note peace and security throughout the world. In addition, in this regard that some terrorist groups may be able countries afflicted by conflict and instability are still to exploit the effects of the pandemic and carry out the most vulnerable to the growing terrorist threat. terrorist attacks with the gradual lifting of health10/24 21-23024 19/08/2021 Threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts S/PV. 8839 care restrictions, as well as polarization and online and other terrorist groups still pose a serious threat to recruitment through social media. international peace and security. It is worth noting the rise of transnational terrorist Norway shares the Secretary-General’s concerns groups today based on xenophobia and intolerance. regarding the expansion of ISIL affiliates into Africa. They also take advantage of the pandemic to spread We have witnessed numerous attacks in the Sahel, the extremist propaganda. That is why Tunisia calls on Lake Chad region and in East and Central Africa, as the international community to step up its efforts well as in Mozambique. We therefore express our full following the pandemic to enable quick recovery and support for the Global Coalition against Da’esh and, reconstruction and to prevent political, social and together with our international coalition partners, we economic effects that might become factors that lead will maintain our highly prioritized contributions. to terrorism. The fight against ISIL and other terrorist groups The first line of defence against terrorism is tackling must continue on all levels. Experience shows that ISIL its root causes and the factors that fuel it. That is why and other terrorist groups exploit existing conflicts and there is a need to step up international efforts to resolve vulnerabilities in States and populations, including all conflicts that offer a breeding ground for terrorism, gender inequalities and sexual and gender-based as well as to limit the movement of terrorist fighters violence. We must apply a gender perspective in our and mercenaries towards conflict zones, because response to address the impact of those threats. that prolongs conflicts and thwarts efforts to achieve We would like to emphasize three principles from peace. We must also step up our efforts to achieve our national counter-terrorism strategy, which takes a sustainable development and address all factors that whole-of-society approach to terrorism. We believe that create vulnerability by strengthening good governance, the principles of prevention, protection and aversion are the rule of law and human rights and tackling the root globally applicable. causes of violence. First, on prevention, it is clear that preventing violent In conclusion, fighting terrorism is at the top of extremism is the most effective counter-terrorism Tunisia’s priorities. We reiterate our commitment at strategy. For every terror attack prevented, we will the national and international levels to strengthening save human lives and avoid suffering. We also avoid the means necessary to fight terrorism while fully the economic cost of an attack, as well as the largest respecting our commitments related to international societal impact that results from the fear of terrorism. human rights law and international humanitarian law. Prevention encompasses a wide range of measures, Tunisia welcomes the General Assembly’s adoption including education, the provision of basic services and of the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism proactive and cross-cutting outreach from Government Strategy by consensus (resolution 75/291). We hope that institutions, civil society and the private sector. this consensus will be maintained within the Security Secondly, on protection, it is critical to impede Council when renewing the mandate of the Counterterrorist attacks through the development of proper Terrorism Committee Executive Directorate and the infrastructure, such as physical barriers and other sanctions regime against Da’esh and Al-Qaida. obstructions. In that regard, I would like to emphasize We are committed to working with all Member the importance of implementing existing Security States, United Nations bodies and various actors Council resolutions. to strengthen multilateral cooperation and achieve Thirdly, on aversion, we must disrupt terrorist plots our common goal, which is eradicating the scourge through effective investigation and surveillance by of terrorism. police and security institutions, as well as information Mr. Kvalheim (Norway): Let me start by thanking from the public. National authorities should make use the briefers for their comprehensive presentations, as of effective international tools, such as INTERPOL well as the Secretary-General for his thorough biannual databases and border protection programmes. Those report (S/2021/682). The report is a harsh reminder of tools must be kept up to date and supported by the fact that Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) relevant actors while being applied proportionately 21-2302411/24 S/PV.8839 Threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts 19/08/2021 and in compliance with international law and human Mrs. Buenrostro Massieu (Mexico) (spoke in rights law. Spanish): Mexico is grateful to India convening this open debate as well to the briefers for the valuable Here in the Security Council, it is particularly information that they have shared with us this morning. important that we identify and prioritize areas of cooperation. We believe that the financing of terrorism In light of the current situation in Afghanistan, my is one of those areas. The increased use of encryption country wishes to stress the importance of uniting our technology and cryptocurrency linked to organized efforts to firmly condemn any action that threatens crime underscores the importance of coordination. international peace and security, as well as international Because financial instruments have no regard for humanitarian and human rights law. borders, we too must work across them like we do Moreover, and in line with the press statement in forums such as the Financial Action Task Force. issued by the Council on 16 August, Mexico reiterates We must continue our dialogue to ensure effective the need to ensure that the territory of Afghanistan does counter-terrorism frameworks while protecting not become a safe haven for the training of terrorists, humanitarian spaces. nor for planning or perpetrating terrorist acts, as set out in resolution 1267 (1996). Principled humanitarian action, with a focus on avoiding the negative unintended consequences of Mexico has closely studied the thirteenth report sanctions and promoting humanitarian exemptions and of the Secretary-General (S/2021/682) on the threat efficient exemptions procedures, must be facilitated. posed by the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) (Da’esh), which brings us together at this debate. Moreover, the pandemic is an underlying factor Accordingly, I would like to highlight several points. contributing to increased recruitment among terror organizations and incitement to violent extremism, First, Mexico expresses its concern about what which is well described in the Counter-Terrorism the report identifies as the most striking development Committee Executive Directorate trend reports. during the reporting period, which is the expansion of Preventing violent extremists’ misuse of cyberspace Da’esh in Africa, where the largest number of victims and Internet platforms must be a high priority. has been recorded. As the Secretary-General points out in his report, we must focus our attention on the crossA few months ago, we heard the former Special border activities of terrorist groups in West, East and Advisor and Head of the United Nations Investigative Central Africa. Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed With regard to the challenges presented by the by Da’esh/Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant, coronavirus disease pandemic, we are concerned that Mr. Karim Khan, brief the Council on the investigation restrictions have made the delivery of humanitarian into ISIL atrocities in Iraq (see S/2020/1193, annex I). assistance more difficult in many regions of the world, Let us keep that in mind as a reminder of what is at impacting communities most in need. That has created a stake in our international fight against terror, especially situation in which terrorist organizations have sought to as current events unfold in Afghanistan, where we are become providers of food, charity, monetary resources deeply concerned by the expansion of ISIL-Khorasan in and other forms of support, while at the same time several provinces, as well as the continued presence of seeking to use disinformation concerning the pandemic Al-Qaida. We reaffirm the responsibility of all parties to promote their violent narratives and consolidate and to ensure that the country does not become a safe haven expand their operations and recruitment activities. for terrorists. Furthermore, we are concerned about ISIL’s access In conclusion, I would like to emphasize the to funding sources, as was mentioned earlier, as well as importance of accountability and the continued need the group’s access to weapons. The increase in the use of for action against terrorism. The adoption of this year’s cryptocurrencies must be urgently addressed, with the review of the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism support of the private sector. Cooperation must also be Strategy by consensus sends a strong message that we strengthened between the Office of Counter-Terrorism must all stand together against hate speech, violent and the Counter-Terrorism Committee Executive extremism and terrorism. Directorate to cut the links between terrorism and 12/24 21-23024 19/08/2021 Threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts S/PV. 8839 illicit arms trafficking, as mentioned in the report. To agencies they head. We thank Mr. Moradian, our longthat end, we must work even more diligently towards time friend, for his comprehensive and emotional, yet the full implementation of the Programme of Action sobering and extremely pertinent briefing. to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Today, the attention of the international community Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects and is riveted on the situation in Afghanistan. Undeniably, the regime established by the Arms Trade Treaty. We in the context of a discussion of counter-terrorism, we take this opportunity to call on States that have not yet cannot ignore the situation in that country. It would done so to join that important legal instrument. appear that, in the aftermath of the tragic events of Moreover, we agree with the Secretary-General 11 September 2001, for 20 years Afghanistan was full that, in order to confront the impact of ISIL on women of American and NATO troops, trainers and advisers, and girls, a truly cross-cutting gender agenda is needed. whose officially proclaimed purpose was the fight In that regard, we recall the convening of last month’s against terrorism and the training of the Afghan Arria Formula meeting on the topic of preventing national security forces to prepare them for this fight. terrorism and violent extremism by addressing gender To that end, enormous human and financial resources stereotypes, masculinities and gender inequality. were mobilized. As a result of that discussion, it was clear that there What are the results of that assistance and presence? is a consensus on the need to incorporate the notion As soon as foreign support was withdrawn, 20 years of of masculinities in determining the root causes of efforts were erased in an instant. Everything went to terrorism and violent extremism and prevention waste. No one was either willing or able to fight for the strategies. We would request the Secretary-General values and interests inculcated by the foreign Powers. to include this dimension in his next report in order to Has Afghanistan ceased to be a source of terrorist bolster a comprehensive gender agenda in analysing and narcotic threats? Of course not, but the new threats posed by ISIL and other terrorist groups, such Afghan authorities and Afghanistan’s neighbours will as Al-Qaida. have to deal with that. Following the exit of Western In the light of the fact that we will commemorate contingents, Afghan citizens are facing an even greater the twentieth anniversary of the adoption of resolution number of problems. 1373 (2001) this September, Mexico reiterates the need We would like to underscore that the Russian to carry out an in-depth assessment of the lessons Federation will cooperate only with those political forces learned and good practices that the international in Afghanistan that have no ties to terrorists, above all community has used to address the structural and the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant, Al-Qaida and underlying causes of terrorism. Twenty years later, their affiliated groups. We trust that all Afghan parties reality — including recent events — has shown us that will refrain from violence and contribute to resolving any so-called war on terror that fundamentally relies on the situation peacefully. military action is not the way to tackle the root causes of terrorism and violent extremism. Therefore, now is the In recent years, thanks to the consistent efforts time to invest our resources and efforts in prevention of the Russian and Syrian militaries, we have been and sustainable development. able to significantly weaken the potential of terrorist organizations operating in Syria, in particular ISIL. Lastly, I take this opportunity to reaffirm Mexico’s However, certain terrorist cells remain active and commitment to multilateral initiatives that seek to continue to pose a serious threat. The largest group comprehensively meet this challenge to peace and remains the Hayat Tahrir Al-Sham, which emerged international peace and security, including with respect from Jabhat Al-Nusra. According to various estimates, for human rights and international humanitarian law, its members number from 10,000 to 15,000. The fight and a gender perspective. against that terrorist organization is complicated by attempts to present it as some kind of political opposition. Mr. Nebenzia (Russian Federation): (spoke in Russian): We thank Mr. Voronkov and Ms. Coninsx Another terrorist organization that continues to for their detailed analyses of the situation in the pose a threat in the region is Huras Al-Din, a branch fight against the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant of Al-Qaida in Syria. According to various estimates, (ISIL). We express our support for the activities of the its members number from 3,500 to 5,000, half of whom 21-2302413/24 S/PV.8839 Threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts 19/08/2021 are foreign terrorist fighters. For our part, we continue Mr. Kariuki (United Kingdom): I thank you, to provide needed assistance to the Syrian authorities Mr. President, for convening today’s important debate. to counter terrorism. The situation evolving in other Two years on from its territorial defeat, Da’esh regions of the world also raises our concern. ISIL is remains a significant global threat. The recent attacks spreading its influence in Africa. The autonomy of in Baghdad and the continuing violence in Syria provide their regional affiliates, especially in West, Central and further tragic evidence of that fact. We therefore East Africa and the Sahel, is growing stronger. welcome the Secretary-General’s report on the threat I once again underscore the Russian position on the posed by Da’esh (S/2021/682). I would like to thank return of foreign terrorist fighters. We support ensuring Under-Secretary-General Voronkov and Executive their unavoidable punishment for terrorist crimes and Director Coninsx for their briefings, and Mr. Moradian, in particular, for his moving presentation. pooling the efforts of the entire international community to that end. In accordance with international obligations, We are also indebted to the Analytical Support foreign terrorist fighters involved in terrorist activities and Sanctions Monitoring Team, the United Nations must be repatriated to their countries of origin, where Office of Counter-Terrorism and the Counter-Terrorism they should be prosecuted in accordance with the Committee Executive Directorate (CTED) for their gravity of their crimes. Otherwise, they should be important work in analysing the threat. tried in the place where the crime was committed, in The position of the United Kingdom in countering accordance with the national law of the State concerned. Da’esh is very clear. We remain an active and committed Such cooperation with the legitimate authorities of the member of the Global Coalition against Da’esh. We countries where the fighters are located will be key to are a co-leader of the Coalition’s counter-propaganda resolving many of the problems associated with foreign effort and we host the Counter-Da’esh Coalition terrorist fighters and their family members. Communications Cell in the United Kingdom. We continue to provide significant humanitarian and Recently, there has been an active spread of ISIL stabilization support to those liberated areas of Iraq terrorist ideology among children in cyberspace. We and Syria. We also continue to facilitate the return of call on Member States to conduct the relevant work unaccompanied or orphaned children, on a case-byon prevention and deradicalization in that extremely case basis and subject to national security concerns. vulnerable segment of the population. However, we remain clear that those who have fought We cannot ignore the human rights aspects of or supported Da’esh should face justice for their crimes the fight against terrorism. Speaking out in support in the most appropriate jurisdiction. Often that will be of human rights and gender aspects is insufficient; the region where those crimes were committed. the international community must see results. We While it is vital that we focus on the immediate must again raise the question of the operation of the threats Da’esh poses, we must also work together to Guantanamo Bay prison. On many occasions, we have tackle the long-term drivers of terrorism. That is why heard high-ranking American officials state that they the United Kingdom recently announced an additional intend to close that facility, notorious for detaining £2.6 million of funding to support stabilization in northpeople without trial or investigation, as well as for eastern Syria. We must also remain alert to the rising the torture and inhumane and degrading treatment of threat in other geographies. What is happening now in prisoners. We expect our Western colleagues to fulfil Afghanistan is a tragedy. We will remain vigilant to the their international legal obligations under, inter alia, return of the terrorist threat. We all share an interest the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees, in making sure Afghanistan does not again become a the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, safe haven for terrorists. The threat continues to grow Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment and in Sub-Saharan Africa. We are providing security, other essential international treaties. Those obligations stabilization and humanitarian assistance in many are particularly relevant in the context of the growing countries to help them tackle the threat, build stability mass exodus of people from conflict zones. The fight and support communities that are affected. against terrorism is a common effort and we call for Meanwhile, Da’esh continues its attempts to incite full cooperation in it. and recruit supporters around the world, particularly 14/24 21-23024 19/08/2021 Threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts S/PV. 8839 using social media and encrypted online platforms. great importance to the matter and adopt comprehensive Terrorism is global and requires a global response. measures to jointly respond to the threat of terrorism. Multilateral cooperation lies at the heart of that global Terrorism is the common enemy of our societies response. At the United Nations level, we welcome the and combating it is a responsibility shared by the continued efforts of the Office of Counter-Terrorism, international community. Countries should strengthen CTED and other United Nations agencies in supporting cooperation at the national, regional and global levels States to tackle it. At the same time, we must be agile by stepping up counter-terrorism efforts in areas, such in recognizing the other new and emerging threats, as early warning, counter-terrorism financing, travel including the use and misuse of new technologies. We restrictions, border control and intelligence-sharing. should continue efforts to counter terrorist financing In the first half of the year, terrorist organizations, and extreme right-wing terrorism and to prevent so designated by the Security Council, have caused terrorists’ misuse of the internet. more casualties in Africa than in any other continent. Finally, we believe it is important to bring our China supports greater coordination between the values to that effort. When countering terrorism, we Counter-Terrorism Committee, the Counter-Terrorism must all ensure that we protect and promote human Committee Executive Directorate and the Office of rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. Counter-Terrorism, so as to help African countries We must integrate the gender-sensitive and whole-ofstrengthen their counter-terrorism capacity-building. society approach into those efforts. In that way, we will There should be no double standards in the fight uphold the very principles on which the United Nations against terrorism. There is no such thing as a good was founded. terrorist or bad terrorist. Terrorism, regardless of when and where it occurs, its motives or perpetrators, The United Kingdom will remain steadfast in the should be condemned and eliminated. Determining global fight against terrorism and violent extremism. terrorists based on political self-interest essentially We will continue to stand up for our shared values and condones terrorist activities and seriously undermines interests. We will continue to work with our partners international counter-terrorism cooperation. The fight and through the multilateral system to that end. against terrorism cannot be based on ideology. We Mr. Dai Bing (China) (spoke in Chinese): I thank firmly oppose linking terrorism to specific countries, His Excellency Mr. Jaishankar, Minister for External Governments, ethnic groups or religions. We are also Affairs of India, for presiding over today’s meeting. opposed to allowing terrorist organizations to grow I thank Under-Secretary-General Voronkov and and perpetrate violent attacks under the pretext of Executive Director Coninsx for their briefings. I also protecting ethnic minorities and religious freedoms. listened carefully to the statement by Mr. Moradian, In combating terrorism, emphasis should be placed civil society representative for Afghanistan. on the prevention and elimination of its root causes. In a few days, we will mark the twentieth anniversary Counter-terrorism measures should focus on longof the 11 September 2001 attacks. Although important term solutions, by addressing its symptoms and root progress has been made in the area of international causes alike. It is important to adopt comprehensive counter-terrorism cooperation, the current global political, economic, judicial and social measures, and situation remains complex and dire, with terrorism and ensure the peaceful solution of hotspot issues through violent extremism intertwined. As the report of the political means. It is important to assist Member Secretary-General (S/2021/682) indicates, in the first States in eradicating poverty, strengthening capacityhalf of the year, the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant building, promoting sustainable economic and social has regrouped in places, including Iraq and Syria, development and advocating mutual respect and and has expanded in Africa. It has provided financial harmonious coexistence among civilizations, religions support to terrorist organizations in various regions and ethnic groups. and terrorist attacks have occurred from time to time. Young people are vulnerable to extreme ideologies. The coronavirus disease has aggravated economic and Therefore, special attention should be paid to strengthen social challenges, which could bring about a new wave education and employment opportunities for young of terrorism. The international community must attach people, so as to provide a favourable environment for 21-2302415/24 S/PV.8839 Threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts 19/08/2021 their growth. Countries should carry out exchanges exchanges and cooperation in such areas as counterand engage in cooperation on counter-terrorism and terrorism, intelligence exchanges, combating the deradicalization measures, such as vocational training, financing of terrorism, transnational organized crime education and community correction measures, to help and cyber terrorism in a joint effort to respond to vulnerable countries strengthen their counter-terrorism terrorist threats and maintain world peace and stability. capacity-building. Ms. Byrne Nason (Ireland): I would like to thank In combating terrorism, it is important to focus the Indian presidency for ensuring a continued focus on key issues, while taking into consideration new on the critical issue of counter-terrorism. I also want developments. We must be highly vigilant to terrorist to thank our three briefers this morning for their forces using the coronavirus disease to instigate terrorist excellent briefings. activities and strive to solve outstanding problems, such as the abuse of the Internet and emerging technologies It may sound like a truism, but it is indeed a fact: the by terrorists, the diversification of terrorist-financing scourge of terrorism remains one of the gravest threats channels and their connection with organized crime. to international peace and security despite significant For a long time now, a great number of foreign terrorist progress made by the Security Council and its Counterfighters have been stranded in Syria, Iraq and other Terrorism Committee. countries, which is increasingly becoming a major The report of the Secretary-General (S/2021/682) security hazard. Solutions should be developed as soon is clear. In the first half of this year, the threat posed as possible, and repatriation of these fighters must be by the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) properly facilitated. continued to increase, with ISIL activities expanding In his briefing just now, Mr. Moradian focused in Africa, notwithstanding the restrictions imposed by on the counter-terrorism situation in Afghanistan. In coronavirus disease. the 20 years since the war on terrorism in the country The report also highlights the significant threat began, the threat of terrorism has not been eliminated. posed by ISIL-Khorasan to the people of Afghanistan, Instead, the number of terrorist organizations in evidenced by the horrific attack on HALO Trust staff Afghanistan has gone from being in the single digits in Baghlan province on 8 June. The Council spoke with to more than 20, with close to 10,000 foreign terrorist one united voice in condemning that heinous attack. fighters now present in the country. The monitoring While the circumstances in Afghanistan have changed teams of the Security Council Committees established very significantly since then, we cannot forget that pursuant to resolutions 1267 (1999) and 1988 (2011) aspect of the conflict environment. have repeatedly issued reports this year pointing out that such terrorist organizations as the Islamic State, The pandemic has accelerated the digital transition Al-Qaida, the Eastern Turkistan Islamic Movement across so many aspects of our societies. Unfortunately, and the Pakistani Taliban have multiplied and gathered this is also true for terrorists and for terrorism. Ireland in Afghanistan. supports the Secretary-General’s call for States Members of the United Nations to rise to the challenge The current situation in Afghanistan has undergone of digitally enabled terrorism through international major changes, and terrorist organizations are likely to cooperation and effective government in line with take advantage of this chaos. Afghanistan must never international law. Civil society and the private sector become a terrorist paradise again. play a crucial role in this regard. However, the challenge, We hope the Taliban will completely cut off ties as always, is to move from rhetoric to implementation. with all terrorist organizations. All countries should We were particularly interested to learn of the cooperate with each other in combating all forms of important work carried out by the United Nations terrorism in accordance with international law and Development Programme, Burkina Faso, Kenya and Security Council resolutions, so as to bring hope for other partners to address the differential impact of the peace to Afghanistan. threat of ISIL and its affiliates on women and girls. China will continue to actively work with the United Specifically, we welcome the development of a toolkit Nations, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and to generate gender-disaggregated data and inform a the Global Counter-Terrorism Forum to strengthen gender-sensitive response to those threats. Greater 16/24 21-23024 19/08/2021 Threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts S/PV. 8839 detail in future reports on the outcome of this work ensure that legislation is necessary, fit for purpose and would be useful, including on how it could be applied contains appropriate human rights safeguards. more broadly. Put simply, including gender-sensitive Finally, we know that victims and survivors of disaggregated data in our analysis will strengthen our terrorism continue to struggle to have their voices capacity to address terrorism. heard. We believe that they need support, that this Ireland is a small, open economy with a thriving support should be reflected in this regard and that their financial services industry. We know that both rights are upheld. We firmly believe that a holistic terrorism and organized crime are fuelled by complex approach to transitional justice is essential to upholding systems of money-laundering and terrorist-financing. those rights. We will work to that end in our role at the We also recognize that countering such financing is a Security Council. central part of our global counter-terrorism response. At the domestic level, we have a robust, institutional Tomorrow, we will mark the fourth International framework for countering terrorist financing. This Day of Remembrance of and Tribute to Victims of is kept under review to reflect new and emerging Terrorism, so let everyone of us around this table trends, as well as European Union requirements and recommit to supporting their gender-specific needs, to Financial Action Task Force recommendations. We upholding their rights, and most importantly, to hearing have also recently introduced legislation that extends and heeding their voices. This is surely the least that we the countering of terrorist-financing obligations to owe to the countless victims and survivors of terrorism. virtual-asset service providers. Mr. Aougi (Niger) (spoke in French): I thank Just last week, at the Arria Formula meeting the President for organizing today’s debate. I thank organized by Kenya, members of the Security Council Mr. Vladimir Voronkov, Ms. Michèle Coninsx and heard about the negative impact on humanitarian Mr. Davood Moradian for their substantive and actors and their provision of humanitarian aid of clear briefings. some regulations designed to counter the financing Six months ago, when we were debating the of terrorism and their resultant de-risking practices. twelfth report of the Secretary-General assessing the The Secretary-General has also raised concerns international terrorist threat (S/2021/98), my delegation that tightening counter-terrorism measures by some expressed its satisfaction with the positive developments Member States during the pandemic could negatively in the global fight against terrorism in 2020, which affect non-profit organizations and emergency had resulted in the neutralization of several senior humanitarian aid. We reiterate once more that such measures must not impede the delivery of principled commanders of terrorist organizations in Iraq, Syria as humanitarian assistance, nor should they infringe well as in Africa (see S/2021/140). upon the legitimate activities of humanitarian and civil Today, unfortunately, the situation is alarming. society organizations carrying out vital work, often in My country is concerned about the resilience and fragile or conflict-affected contexts. We will remain adaptability shown by the terrorist organization, the vigilant on that issue right across our agenda in the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) (Da’esh), Security Council. The Council has a responsibility to which, having lost all territorial control in Iraq and ensure that measures to counter terrorist funding are Syria, has managed to export its atrocities to several applied based on risk and that they fully comply with other regions of the world, including Africa. Indeed, the international law, including international humanitarian continent has become the epicentre of global terrorist law, international human rights law and international activities, as the thirteenth report of the Secretaryrefugee law. General on the subject (S/2021/682) so clearly indicates. Independent oversight of counter-terrorism Statistics show that since the end of 2019, more than two legislation has been effective in mitigating some of thirds of terrorist attacks committed by Da’esh fighters these risks and challenges. Domestically, Ireland is worldwide have taken place on the African continent, undertaking an independent review of its main body of mostly in the Sahel and Lake Chad basin regions. That counter-terrorism legislation and has recently published rapid expansion of the Da’esh threat in Africa has been proposals for the establishment of an independent accomplished through several local groups affiliated examiner of security legislation. Such an entity will with the terrorist organization. 21-2302417/24 S/PV.8839 Threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts 19/08/2021 My country, the Niger, which has been facing in resolution 2462 (2019), as well as all relevant Council terrorist threats for several years on at least three of resolutions aimed at preventing and combating violent its borders, to the west, south and north, has been extremism and the emergence and online dissemination experiencing an increase in atrocities committed by of terrorist ideas and rhetoric. terrorist groups mainly affiliated to Da’esh, and, to a In that regard, I would like to commend the lesser extent, Al-Qaida, since the beginning of 2021. remarkable efforts of all the relevant United Nations A dozen armed attacks recorded during the first half entities, particularly the United Nations Office of of the year resulted in nearly 500 deaths, most of Counter-Terrorism, the Counter-Terrorism Committee them civilians. Most of those attacks were carried out Executive Directorate and the United Nations Office on in the west of the country in the so-called tri-border area — Mali-Niger-Burkina Faso. The most recent Drugs and Crime, which, despite the constraints of the attack on Monday targeted the village of DareyCOVID-19 pandemic, have found alternative ways to Daye near the Malian border, killing 37 people. Just ensure the continuity of capacity-building in Member yesterday, 47 civilians and soldiers died in Burkina States through innovative distance assessment, Faso as a result of a terrorist attack. The perpetrators e-learning and virtual events. of those wanton attacks against defenceless populations In conclusion, I would like to reaffirm my must be held accountable for their crimes. country’s conviction that the fight against terrorism Such an upsurge in terrorist attacks in African requires the commitment of all. For that fight to be countries comes at a time when almost all the effective, our approach must be comprehensive, taking international community’s attention is focused on into account the social, economic and political reasons the fight against the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) for radicalization. Military actions must necessarily pandemic. One disaster should not hide another. Our be accompanied by soft development and good efforts to eradicate the spread of the coronavirus governance activities. disease should not blind us to the threat of international Mr. Lipand (Estonia): I would like to start by terrorism. That is all the more true given the fact that thanking Under-Secretary-General Voronkov and the many challenges always faced by Governments and Executive Director Coninsx for their comprehensive people in the regions of Africa affected by that scourge briefings, introducing their fresh findings on threats make them even more vulnerable. Such challenges are posed by the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant poverty, famine, insecurity, lack of knowledge, youth (ISIL) and its affiliates. As one of the penholders on unemployment, porous borders and intercommunal Afghanistan, we also highly appreciate the insights conflicts. All those challenges have facilitated the rapid provided by Mr. Davood Moradian. expansion of the terrorist threat that I mentioned earlier. The weakness of the defence systems of those countries, The Secretary-General’s report (S/2021/682) notes as well as political instability, are aggravating factors. that the pandemic has had a substantive impact on the threat of terrorism. The measures taken to tackle the Given such a tragic situation, the international spread of the virus have complicated terrorist planning community has a duty to take urgent measures to help and operations. Transportation, recruitment and fundthe Governments of the affected African countries raising have become more difficult in many parts of before it is too late, for it must be emphasized that the globe. Da’esh has never concealed its ambition to regain the capacity to plan and foment international attacks, even However, we must remain vigilant. United Nations through one of its now powerful regional affiliates. reporting emphasizes that the threat has persisted and increased in conflict zones, such as Afghanistan and My delegation believes that the fight against the Sahel. We remain concerned about those and other terrorism is not won by military forces alone. It is areas, where ISIL and Al-Qaida continue to undermine also won by implementing development programmes regional security. and measures to eradicate the underlying behaviours that enable the spread of terrorism, which include The deteriorating situation in Afghanistan remains corruption, the illicit trade in natural resources and of substantial concern. The number of civilians killed money laundering, to name but a few. To that end, States and injured has reached the highest on record. Half the must strive to comply with the recommendations made population in Afghanistan is in need of humanitarian 18/24 21-23024 19/08/2021 Threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts S/PV. 8839 aid. Estonia calls for those in power to adhere to Mrs. Broadhurst Estival (France) (spoke in French): international law, respect human rights and ensure that I would also like to start by thanking Mr. Voronkov, terrorism finds no support or shelter there. Ms. Coninsx and Mr. Moradian for their briefings and their comprehensive and insightful testimony. Estonia further recognizes the threat posed by the Islamic State in the Greater Sahara. The organization The fight against terrorism remains a priority now continues to mount attacks on international security more than ever. The latest developments in Afghanistan, forces, as well as local communities in the tri-border which could lead to an increase in the terrorist threat, area of Mali, Burkina Faso and the Niger. are a strong reminder of that. In those areas, terrorism is closely interlinked with France is playing its full part in the fight against other forms of communal violence. Therefore, in order terrorism, particularly within the international coalition to address extremism and terrorism, more attention against Da’esh, which met in Rome on 28 June. That must be given to lowering intercommunal tensions and coalition is the cornerstone of the international fight nurturing political reconciliation. against Da’esh. Our collective action has also been strengthened by the adoption, by consensus, by the We are facing new complex security challenges, General Assembly of the seventh review of the United such as cyberthreats and hybrid ones, as well as Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy (General capabilities such as drones, which increase the real-time Assembly resolution 75/291) in June. threat from terrorists to civilian populations and our men and women on operations and peacekeeping While Da’esh no longer controls any territory and missions across the world. the populations under its rule have now been liberated in Iraq and Syria, we know that the threat remains grave In the light of the constantly evolving nature of the against a backdrop of continuously spreading terrorism. threat, we appreciate the role played by the European In Afghanistan, the victory of the Taliban — which, Union Agency for Criminal Justice Cooperation and as we know, has not severed its ties with terrorist the European Union Agency for Law Enforcement groups — could exacerbate the threat not only at the Cooperation in combating all forms of terrorism in the local level but also across the subregion. The spread of European Union and beyond. We welcome the increased Da’esh into Central and Southern Africa also remains a cooperation of those agencies with the United Nations. major source of concern. Coordinated efforts must be made to tackle the The first pillar of our collective action against challenges posed by foreign terrorist fighters. Estonia terrorism must be to cut off terrorist groups from their commends the United Nations Office of Counterresources. In that regard, on the occasion of the highTerrorism for the coordination of the Global Framework level United Nations Counter-Terrorism week, France to provide “all-of-United Nations” support to Member and India jointly organized an event on 25 June with States on the protection, voluntary repatriation, 172 participants and relevant United Nations entities prosecution, rehabilitation and reintegration of on the fight against the financing of terrorism. That individuals with suspected links to terrorist groups meeting highlighted the risks associated with virtual returning from Iraq and Syria. assets and new financing instruments, emphasizing in particular the need for existing anti-money-laundering Finally, States must ensure that all counterand counter-terrorist financing obligations to apply terrorism measures comply with their obligations under equally to all institutions, whether virtual or not. Those international law, in particular international human obligations stem primarily from resolution 2462 (2019), rights law, refugee law and international humanitarian adopted under France’s presidency of the Council, as law. Ignoring those principles can undermine counterwell as from the recommendations of the Financial terrorism activities and lead to increased radicalization, Action Task Force. We will continue to be committed fed by violence and a sense of impunity. to this fight, in particular by encouraging the holding of a third No Money for Terror conference as soon as the We condemn all attempts to misuse the counterhealth situation allows. terrorism agenda as a pretext for human rights violations or for silencing political opponents and members of The second pillar of our joint effort must be to tackle religious or ethnic minorities. the root causes of terrorism. Terrorist groups thrive 21-2302419/24 S/PV.8839 Threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts 19/08/2021 on frustration and situations of despair and conflict. crimes. Not only is it a matter of security and justice, We must therefore address the root causes of conflict, but also a moral obligation towards their victims. extremism and terrorism. In Syria, for example, that In conclusion, France wishes to reiterate that it requires a political solution in line with the provisions will continue to play a firm and determined role in the of resolution 2254 (2015). In Iraq, it means stabilization international fight against global terrorism in order to and reconstruction. put an end to that scourge. We must also be unrelenting in the fight Mr. Kimani (Kenya): I thank you the President against ideological indoctrination, in particular by for organizing today’s meeting and travelling to New combating the misuse of the Internet for terrorist York to hold it. I also thank Under-Secretary-General purposes, including as a vehicle for disseminating Vladimir Voronkov and Assistant Secretary-General Da’esh propaganda. France continues, in a constant Michèle Coninsx for their briefings on the Secretaryand determined manner, to strengthen the national, General’s thirteenth strategic report (S/2021/682), as European and international responses to counter the well as the Secretary-General for producing it. dissemination of such propaganda in conjunction with the private sector and Internet companies in particular. As all other delegations that have spoken before me I am pleased that the Christchurch Appeal, which we have reflected, the threat posed by the Islamic State in launched together with New Zealand, has now brought Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and its affiliates remains real 55 States on board so far, as well as the European and dangerously potent. As the findings of the report Commission, two international organizations and have noted, the group continues to maintain operational 10 companies. capability and could likely undertake a surge in its activities in a post-coronavirus disease landscape. Thirdly and finally, the fight against terrorism must be conducted in accordance with our principles. I want to point to Kenya’s experience as a possible Most importantly, it must be carried out within the illustration of some of the responses in different framework of respect for human rights, international countries and theatres that the Council could utilize law and international humanitarian law. Our collective and from which it can learn. We are a front-line State in action must therefore ensure that counter-terrorism the fight against international terrorism, and ever since measures work effectively while also allowing for the attack by Al-Qaida on the United States Embassy essential humanitarian action. That fight must then in 1998, which treated Kenyans as acceptable collateral lead to justice for all victims of such barbarism. damage to their evil actions, we have sought to engage fully in that fight. On 31 March, 18 Foreign Ministers, including France’s Foreign Minister, issued a statement reminding We have joined up our capabilities within us that they would not remain silent in the face of the Government, and today terrorism is faced by a true crimes committed in Syria, including those perpetrated multi-agency approach that holds from the national level by Da’esh. Those crimes can be considered war to the local level and is driven by intelligence-sharing crimes and crimes against humanity, and we reaffirm and joint local action. We have also built up what we our commitment to ensuring that such crimes do not believe is a robust — but still growing — prevention go unpunished. capability that includes disengagement from very early on in the radicalization and recruitment cycle all the Those crimes also have an unbearable impact, first way to the disengagement of hardened fighters who do and foremost on children. Unlike their parents, children not fit in our judicial system. have not chosen to join terrorist groups in a war zone over which they have no control. With the best interests We have worked within the prison sector and our of the child at heart, the most vulnerable orphans and judiciary to ensure that our magistrates and the legal unaccompanied minors must be repatriated as soon profession are better aware of the laws on the books as conditions allow. France has done so on several and of the kind of threat that we face. We have worked occasions and will continue to do so. Adult foreign on building programmes aimed at countering violent terrorist fighters who have joined Da’esh’s ranks must be extremism and have now extended those to the security tried as close as possible to where they committed their sector in a way that allows us to directly and operationally 20/24 21-23024 19/08/2021 Threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts S/PV. 8839 deliver messages to sites where Al-Shabaab and similar perhaps, sufficiently robust support for those countries groups have tried to drive their message. in Africa. We are committed to the public being involved Secondly, it can create a sense of hopelessness in and aware of that challenge, and we are committed the international community by giving the impression to working together with our partners regionally and to policymakers that the whole continent is suffering globally. We have initiated what we call county action from terrorism, and therefore, if it is such a large plans that bring together civil society, local government problem, then maybe nothing can be done about it. administration, different ministries and security Consequently, I believe that we need to be very aware agencies at the county level to diagnose a problem within of that possibility, as we comment on the challenge. a certain template and take action together. We are very That having been said, as the ongoing developments grateful to some of the countries here in the Council that have led to the takeover of Afghanistan by the that have been robust partners in that endeavour. Taliban show, the Council should be concerned about I point to this experience only to say something the possibility that extremist groups or groups within simple, which is that, in the coming years, we are going the African region or internationally and which hold to need to build counter-terrorism capabilities within an extremist worldview may find inspiration in these the State — not merely as temporary mechanisms to developments, with dire long-term consequences. I address temporary episodes or temporary challenges, listened very carefully to Davood Moradian and truly but rather as standing and permanent capabilities. believe that he has a lot to contribute in terms of his ideas and directness. I want to point to a specific issue of concern that was reflected in the report in relation to the victims of We all continue to be concerned that the terrorismsexual violence by ISIL and the children born of such financing activities by such groups as Al-Shabaab abuse, many of whom continue to be confined in camps have surged, with their revenue collection sometimes in Iraq and Syria. What is unfortunate is that such rivalling, and even surpassing, that of the Federal confinement centres are becoming not only breeding Government of Somalia, as well as other Governments grounds for recruitment and radicalization, but also elsewhere. We do not believe that we are taking sufficient incubators of ardent terrorist elements. Decisive action action to strangle these groups’ terrorist financing, and is necessary to dismantle this vicious cycle, and we we must face up to this fact and make our actions at the highly recommend that the Council, in its engagement regional and global levels much tougher. with the mandates that are relevant to those camps, take Mr. President, I would like to commend to the this matter into account and take action accordingly. Council your comments on the predictability and We are alarmed by ISIL’s expansion in many transparency of the listing regime. I believe that we regions, especially in countries in Africa. Its so-called need to take this matter very seriously. When countries Provinces and offshoots are entrenching themselves bring a terrorist group before the Council, they need in conflict situations with far-reaching implications. to be able to find the pre-established clear criteria We very much appreciate the awareness of this threat that apply. When Kenya tried to bring a certain group in countries in Africa, which has been reflected by before the Council, the request was refused, although delegations that have spoken before me. However, we we all know that the group concerned is an affiliate of would like to add a note of caution, namely, to perhaps Al-Qaida and clearly comes under the purview of the not associate Africa with ISIL or Africa with terrorism, sanctions regime of the Committee established pursuant because the overwhelming majority of African countries to resolution 1267 (1999) concerning Al-Qaida and the do not, in fact, have an ISIL challenge. Making that Taliban and associated individuals and entities. That association not only mischaracterizes the reality, but has weakened the credibility of the 1267 regime, as it can wrongly shape our response to the challenge as appears to apply different rules to different situations. it exists. We very much appreciate the limits set in considering First, it creates a two-track counter-terrorism how counter-terrorism can affect humanitarian aid, comprising counter-terrorism for ISIL in Africa and but we would like the Council to better consider that counter-terrorism elsewhere. Usually, twin tracks terrorism itself is leading, and has led, to humanitarian are filled with double standards and do not provide, crises. The fact that terrorist groups are looking to 21-2302421/24 S/PV.8839 Threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts 19/08/2021 destroy States to control populations is in and of itself circulated by the President and support the elements one of the major drivers of humanitarian catastrophes. and the spirit of that statement. Counter-terrorism is therefore not in opposition to Mr. Pham (Viet Nam): I would like to thank humanitarian action. Counter-terrorism is one of the Under-Secretary-General Voronkov, Assistant tools to prevent humanitarian disaster. Secretary-General Coninsx and Mr. Moradian for their Rather than continue to repeat statements on the informative briefings. principles we all hold, we highly advocate serious It is deeply concerning that the threats posed by discussion about what carve-outs we should build, how the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) (Da’esh) we should implement them and how we should actually have continued to increase and that Da’esh is trying continue to strengthen the counter-terrorism regime. to regroup and resume its attack capabilities. The We are open to that discussion. That was the point of African region has been debilitated by ongoing armed our Arria Formula meeting, and we hope that we will conflicts, humanitarian crises, natural disasters and have such a discussion rather than the same discussions deadly diseases. It is now further threatened by the and arguments among one another, while terrorists increasing terrorist presence in the region. As we continue to use humanitarian supply chains to gain have witnessed, the socioeconomic consequences of resources and recruits. the coronavirus disease pandemic have intensified in We also want to urge the protection of democratic conflict situations. Those could exacerbate conditions processes and a united global call denouncing any prone to be exploited by Da’esh and its affiliates in the attempt of the takeover of the legitimate political mediumand long-term. aspirations of citizenries by ISIL or Al-Qaida elements. In that context, I would like to share the following In particular, we believe that the elections in our region points. First, the international community should in countries with Al-Qaida or ISIL groups should have remain vigilant at all times and be proactive in its specific protections to prevent a takeover of State readiness. Solidarity and cooperation are our most structures by terrorist organizations. effective response. International cooperation and To that end, the full effect of resolution 1267 (1999) technical assistance are crucial to enhancing regional must be felt, and we want to recommend to the Council and national capacities to ensure that the weakest links to list Al-Shabaab as an affiliate of Al-Qaida. We are not left to exploitation by terrorists. Operational believe that that will reflect the Council’s seriousness cooperation enables better monitoring of terrorists’ about terrorism, holding terrorists to account and movement, detecting and responding to imminent the architecture that the Council established after attacks and countering terrorist financing and money11 September 2001. In our view, failure to do so will laundering. We commend the efforts of the United reflect a Security Council that is backing away from its Nations Office of Counter-Terrorism, the Counterown commitments against terrorism. Terrorism Committee Executive Directorate and the relevant entities under the Global Counter-Terrorism I am sorry to speak for so long. I will now conclude Coordination Compact in coordinating efforts to tackle by saying that we notice that one of the missing pieces the scourge of Da’esh. in our discussions and deliberations in dealing with this problem is perhaps what the representative of Mexico Secondly, an effective counter-terrorism strategy was alluding to earlier with regard to the issue of must be in full compliance with the Charter of the masculinity — that is, how identity and State-building United Nations and international law, including interact to actually produce terrorist thinking, international humanitarian law, human rights law and worldviews and radicalization. We believe that we refugee law. The humanitarian and security situation must deal with the issue of how identity is utilized and posed by thousands of ISIL fighters, including foreign mediated in the process of State-building, when we terrorist fighters and their family members remaining undertake peacebuilding, when we oversee transitions in Iraq and Syria, should be addressed with urgency out of United Nations peacekeeping missions, and and in a sustainable manner. We encourage Member when we promote long-term support for countries that States and international organizations to enhance have been affected by terrorist groups. Let me finally their sharing of best practices in reintegration and say that we support the press statement (SC/14609) rehabilitation, while ensuring the best interests of the 22/24 21-23024 19/08/2021 Threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts S/PV. 8839 child wherever children are concerned. Terrorist acts must directly confront the root causes of terrorism to must be prosecuted and punished in accordance with ensure that the pain of the victims is not in vain. the rule of law. While we condemn all acts of violence and Thirdly, the Security Council must remain firmly atrocious crimes committed by the Islamic State in Iraq committed to using all tools at its disposal to detect and the Levant (ISIL) and its affiliates, it is important and avert new threats of terrorism. Terrorists’ use to recognize that the traditional methods of warfare of the Internet and new technologies to raise money, have shifted and that the threat of terrorism is growing. recruit and propagate their agendas deserve our Da’esh and other terrorist groups have taken advantage heightened attention. of the disruption, grievances and development setbacks caused by the unprecedented global crisis, both online Recent developments in Afghanistan necessitate and on the ground. enhanced vigilance and strengthened cooperation to fight terrorism in the region. In that regard, we recall Saint Vincent and the Grenadines notes with press statement SC/14604, issued earlier this week by concern the findings of the Secretary General’s report the Council, in which it stressed the need ensure that (S/2021/682) regarding the African continent, where the territory of Afghanistan is not used to threaten or regional affiliates have been further strengthened, attack any country. It also underscored that parties especially in West Africa and the Sahel, as well as should not support terrorists operating on the territory East and Central Africa. We are particularly troubled of any other country. about the spillover from Mali into Burkina Faso and the Niger — incursions from Nigeria into the Niger, Chad Last but not least, terrorism can be rooted and Cameroon and from Mozambique into the United out when dealt with holistically. Comprehensive Republic of Tanzania. We also note with concern that strategies should focus on addressing its underlying ISIL-Khorasan has expanded its presence in several causes, building cohesive societies that are resilient provinces of Afghanistan and that Da’esh affiliates to terrorism and radicalization and promoting in South-East Asia continue to disturb countersustainable socioeconomic development, a culture terrorism operations with a steady pace of attacks. We of peace and tolerance, national reconciliation and cannot allow Afghanistan to become a safe haven for harmony. A whole-of-society approach involving all terrorism again. actors, including non-governmental organizations, the private sector and technology companies, remains All counter-terrorism actions must be conducted very relevant. in accordance with international law and with the full implementation of the provisions of the United Nations Viet Nam maintains its firm position of rejecting Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy and the relevant terrorism, in all its forms and manifestations. We will General Assembly and Security Council resolutions. continue to actively engage in advancing the global We call on Member States to redouble efforts and fight against terrorism, on the basis of the Charter remain committed to the full protection and promotion of the United Nations, international law and our of human rights and fundamental freedoms across common values. all efforts to counter terrorism and prevent violent Ms. Prince (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines): extremism conducive to terrorism. We must also We, too, thank the briefers for their briefings. effectively and efficiently share information responsibly with our regional and international partners. The threat of their terrorism and violent extremism is among our most complex challenges. Every day In response to the concerns about terrorism and people continue to lose their lives to terrorism and in an effort to enhance and guarantee a safe and free families and communities continue to suffer. Indeed, Caribbean region, Saint Vincent and Grenadines 21 August marks the fourth commemoration of the remains committed to the Caribbean Community International Day of Remembrance of and Tribute to Counter-Terrorism Strategy, which is aimed at reducing the Victims of Terrorism. On that day, Saint Vincent the risk of terrorism and associated violent extremism and the Grenadines will join the global community in by denying terrorists the means and opportunity to pausing to remember all of those affected by terrorism. carry out their activities and improve the Caribbean As the day approaches, we are ever mindful that we Community’s defence against terrorist attacks. 21-2302423/24 S/PV.8839 Threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts 19/08/2021 Countering the financing of terrorism remains instruments, resolution 1373 (2001) and all subsequent an essential part of the global fight against terrorism. resolutions related to combating terrorism. It is also Therefore, in our efforts to combat emerging terrorist imperative that the Security Council continue to play financing risks, we must fully implement resolution a leading role in promoting international peace and 2462 (2019), which requires Member States to disrupt security. We must remain dedicated to strengthening and criminalize the financing of terrorism for any the global alliance against terrorism. purpose. Moreover, all initiatives to combat terrorist financing must be designed in such a way that they The President: Before concluding, I would like safeguard all legitimate and well-managed financial to thank the Security Council Affairs Division, its activities, including in offshore jurisdictions. Director and team for the support extended to the Indian presidency. In conclusion, we reaffirm our commitment to the implementation of the relevant international The meeting rose at 12.15 p.m. 24/24 21-23024
