United Nations S/PV.8792 Security Council Provisional Seventy-sixth year 8792nd meeting Thursday, 10 June 2021, 10 a.m. New York President: Mr. Jürgenson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Estonia) Members: China. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Geng Shuang France . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. De Rivière India . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Tirumurti Ireland. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ms. Byrne Nason Kenya. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Kimani Mexico. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mrs. Buenrostro Massieu Niger. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Abarry Norway . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ms. Heimerback Russian Federation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Polyanskiy/Ms. Evstigneeva Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ms. Prince Tunisia. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Ladeb United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . . Mr. Roscoe United States of America. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Hunter Viet Nam . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Dang Agenda Cooperation between the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations in maintaining international peace and security European Union This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches delivered in other languages. The final text will be printed in the Official Records of the Security Council. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 (verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org). 21-14728 (E) *2114728* S/PV.8792 Cooperation between the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations 10/06/2021 The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m. should just think of artificial intelligence, big data and cloud computing or genetic engineering, autonomous Adoption of the agenda weapons and surveillance. One of the biggest questions that we face is how to ensure that the rules that we The agenda was adopted. so need for those emerging technologies reflect the values of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Cooperation between the United Nations and Otherwise, technology will be used against individuals regional and subregional organizations in and communities in a nightmarish scenario. maintaining international peace and security We all know that conflict prevention and European Union peacebuilding are key. We must work with countries The President: In accordance with rule 39 of at risk before conflict erupts and to build sustainable the Council’s provisional rules of procedure, I invite peace after the signing ceremony. Peace has to be His Excellency Mr. Josep Borrell Fontelles, High sustainable, and sustainable peace compels us to be Representative of the European Union for Foreign inclusive, with a particular focus on women and youth. Affairs and Security Policy, to participate in this We are in the second year of the pandemic, which meeting. has served to underscore the fragility of our hyperThe Security Council will now begin its globalized and interdependent world. We need to learn consideration of the item on its agenda. broader lessons about how human health and security and planetary health and security are linked. Where I give the floor to Mr. Borrell Fontelles. politics gave us stalemates and divisions, science Mr. Borrell Fontelles: I am very pleased to speak and cooperation gave us the exit strategy: vaccines. before the Security Council today about the role We in the European Union are staunch promoters of of the European Union (EU) in the maintenance of vaccine multilateralism, with the COVID-19 Vaccine international peace and security. As Council members Global Access (COVAX) Facility at the centre. Team know very well, we live in a world where the demand Europe — the European Union and its member for multilateral solutions is much greater than the States — has contributed more than €2.8 billion to supply. There is a large imbalance, and we see more COVAX and exported more than 240 million doses of divisions, more free-riding and more distrust than the vaccines to 90 countries, more than any other region. world can afford. Rules-based multilateralism is a term The European Council decided to donate at least that we understood well at the United Nations and in 100 million doses to lowand middle-income countries Brussels. However, it is not a simple phrase, and our job before the end of the year. But even that will not be is to bring it alive for ordinary people. enough. We therefore call on all players to lift export restrictions on vaccines and their components. We must We need global cooperation based on agreed rules recall that Africa imports 99 per cent of its vaccines. because the alternative is the law of the jungle, where That has to change. The European Union is partnering our problems do not get solved. Every day, we see the with Africa and industry, backed by an initial €1 billion cost of the absence of multilateral action on reduced in funding, to boost manufacturing capacity for access to vaccines, insufficient climate action and the vaccines, medicines and health technologies. peace and security crisis, which fester. The root cause is the increasing power politics and ideological contest, Beyond the pandemic, we know that climate change leading to the erosion of trust. We must address that and biodiversity losses have reached existential levels. Two major United Nations summits later this year, in deficit in multilateralism and push back against selective Kunming and in Glasgow, must deliver decisive action. and self-serving approaches to multilateralism. That will be a real test for the multilateral system. We The European Union remains committed to the need those summits to produce real outcomes in line United Nations and to rules-based multilateralism. the scale and urgency of the problem. The Security The core of our strategy is to protect, reform and Council has an important role to play on climate, health build a multilateralism that is fit for purpose. The and their links to peace and security. To give impetus to world’s greatest changes flow from new technologies, the success of the two summits, I hope that the Security which can be both disruptive and empowering. We Council will adopt a resolution on the link between 2/24 21-14728 10/06/2021 Cooperation between the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations S/PV. 8792 climate change and security, which is increasingly universal rights to be respected, sometimes at grave evident, especially in some regions of the world. personal risk, in Hong Kong, Venezuela, Myanmar and elsewhere. In many cases, given the refusal by those in Last year, I said: “At a time of global crisis, we power to respect people’s fundamental rights, we have need a Council that can make critical decisions, not one that is paralysed by vetoes and political infighting.” had to impose sanctions. Sanctions are never an end (see S/2020/489, annex I). Unhappily, one year later, the in themselves; they are a tool to push for respect for situation has not improved. In the past year we have seen universal rights. Our sanctions are targeted and do not new conflicts erupting in Tigray, older ones restarting hinder the delivery of humanitarian aid. in Myanmar and Nagorno-Karabakh and Israel and Allow me to highlight a few concrete areas where Palestine, and also chronic violence continuing in the the European Union is deeply engaged and where we Democratic Republic of the Congo and Yemen, just to need urgent results. mention a few of them. In all those cases, we need the Security Council to provide the necessary decisions. First of all, the most dramatic example is the This is about real people’s lives. The price of inaction recent situation in Israel and Palestine. Last month, is going to be paid in conflicts not solved, humanitarian we saw a dramatic escalation with enormous human aid not delivered and in lives lost. costs. Now we need to build on the ceasefire to resume negotiations towards the two-State solution, which Sitting on the Security Council is a serious has been mentioned so many times. Let us remember responsibility, politically and even morally. The Charter that security is not the same as peace. Security can be of the United Nations gave the Council the supreme attained at a high price, but security alone will not bring say on matters of peace and security. For the European about peace. An untenable status quo may turn again Union, there is no acceptable alternative. There exists into another cycle of violence. Therefore, a negotiated today no other organization that we can turn to. The settlement is urgent, and indeed the only way to give Security Council must therefore provide the support and rights and security to both Israelis and Palestinians. protection that people in conflict zones depend upon. They both deserve it. And to support the parties, we We look to the Security Council to match its belated, must revive the Quartet, as we have been trying to do. but unanimous, support for the Secretary-General’s call for a global ceasefire with a full commitment to With regard to Syria, this year we mark the tenth its implementation, because implementation is the anniversary of the war in that country. During these important part. 10 years, the Syrian regime and its backers have left The European Union has been and remains a the country in ruins. Given the dramatic humanitarian staunch supporter of the United Nations in all three situation, it is essential that the cross-border mechanism pillars. We have said it many times before, and we remain open. I appeal to the Security Council members mean it: our support is not just in what we say, although to renew it in July, without decreasing the degree of that matters, but in financial terms, human terms cross-border transit allowed. and political terms. We work with United Nations With regard to Libya, there has been important missions in many theatres. We have 17 operations progress — a miracle maybe — with the Government and missions contributing to United Nations goals of National Unity. But the ceasefire is still fragile with United Nations mandates; 13 of those missions and needs to be supported by a robust monitoring are operating alongside United Nations missions. In mechanism, so that elections are able to take place in addition, we are currently defining our next set of joint optimal conditions in December as scheduled. We have EU-United Nations priorities on peace operations and been offering support. We welcome the unanimous crisis management to strengthen our cooperation and renewal of the arms embargo, decided yesterday, and the maximize our impact. authorization of inspections and the seizure of illegal We are fully committed to the Sustainable cargo on the high seas. We are also contributing to the Development Goals; it goes without saying. And we arms embargo with the European Union Naval Force base ourselves on the conviction that real security Mediterranean Operation IRINI, which will continue depends on people enjoying their rights and freedoms. its work on the implementation of the embargo. But we We will always be on the side of those calling for their need greater focus on the issue of the withdrawal of 21-147283/24 S/PV.8792 Cooperation between the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations 10/06/2021 foreign fighters and mercenaries from Libya, to avoid the meeting, which will enjoy the broad participation the destabilization of the whole region. of United Nations States Members and, of course, European Union members. In talking about the destabilization of the region coming from Libya, the Sahel immediately comes In our neighbourhood, there is also the Western to mind. The Sahel and the Horn of Africa hold the key Balkans. The European Union will not rest until to African security. Our revised strategy is built around all countries of the region are part of the European the need for more results and greater governmental Union. To that end, we are fully mobilizing to support accountability. We must continue our engagement, but reconciliation and reforms as the best antidote to also take firm actions against those who stand in the nationalist rhetoric. We will host the next iteration of way of a peaceful and inclusive transition process. the Belgrade-Pristina dialogue in the coming days. More broadly, in Europe we do not want geostrategic Another issue of capital importance today is competition. We want a peaceful, prosperous and stable Iran. We are working non-stop to revise the Joint neighbourhood, free from so-called protracted conflicts Comprehensive Plan of Action, which we kept alive and zones of influence. during the past years in all of its aspects. Nuclear activities and the lifting of sanctions go hand in hand. There are many other challenges that I could I am actively engaged with all the main players, and mention, but then I would just talk endlessly. It is better my team is leading the negotiations in Vienna. We are that I stop here in the interest of time and thank one and making progress, but the negotiations are intense and all for their patience. I look forward to comments and slow. There is still a lot of work to be done on a number to our debate. of issues, including the precise sequencing of steps. The President: I thank Mr. Borrell Fontelles for Let me end with some cases closer to us, the his briefing. European Union. First, I want to talk about Belarus. I shall now give the floor to those Council members For months, we have seen massive repression of who wish to make statements peaceful protesters who took to the streets demanding to elect their President freely and fairly. Recently, the Mr. Kimani (Kenya): Kenya thanks Estonia for regime resorted to the scandalous forced landing of a convening this important discussion. I welcome and civilian plane travelling between two European Union thank His Excellency Mr. Josep Borrell Fontelles for capitals in order to arrest a leading journalist and his his briefing. companion. This is a major attack on safety, and the Europe is a bastion of values that Kenya holds European response has been firm and principled. We dear. We share in the view that Europe should find immediately closed our airspace to planes from Belarus its place in the conduct of relations among States and and are in the process of adopting a new package of between States and their citizens. Key among those sanctions. This time, it will also be economic, sectoral values are respect for human dignity, equality, the rule sanctions. We have also devised a €3 billion package of law and human rights, with a focus on the rights of economic support that we will make available to a of minorities. Kenya and Africa embrace those rights democratic Belarus. as their own — not because they are being actively Moving on to a country in that promoted here today, but because they are at the root of neighbourhood — Ukraine. We regret that the situation African civilizations. All these rights are compromised in the country tends to be instrumentalized for political and trampled upon by war. Maintaining international peace and security is therefore key to the protection of purposes here in the Security Council. To be clear, these most precious values. The increasing centrality six years after all members of the Security Council of regional and subregional organizations in the unanimously supported the Minsk agreements, very maintenance of international peace and security is what little has been done to implement them. Russia is a party makes this discussion here today so important. to the conflict, and we count on it to take a constructive stance. In that connection, I welcome President Chapter VIII of Charter of the United Nations is Zelenskyy’s initiative to convene the Crimean Platform exceedingly relevant today, and we must do more to summit, to take place in the summer. Charles Michel, ensure that it is effective and applied. Between the President of the European Council, will take part in United Nations and the European Union (EU) and 4/24 21-14728 10/06/2021 Cooperation between the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations S/PV. 8792 between the United Nations and the African Union promotion of peace and stability in the Horn of Africa (AU), we must work harder to ensure that we build, within the IGAD framework. strengthen and protect a rules-based multilateralism, Finally, in the African Union, the EU contributes to as Mr. Borrell Fontelles spoke about. It bears repeating multiple support programmes for the implementation of that such a rules-based multilateralism must be rooted the Silencing the Guns initiative and the pursuit of the in respect for the sovereignty of all States that are long-term goals of Agenda 2063. members of the EU and the United Nations. More personally, as Director of Kenya’s National Kenya appreciates the EU’s strong investment Counter Terrorism Centre, I worked with colleagues in in multilateral partnerships for addressing the the EU to design an ambitious programme to develop contemporary threats to international peace and our capabilities to counter violent extremism. Doing security. We further appreciate that such investment is so showed me just how much we can achieve together supported by a framework for political communication in terms of innovating and being bold in pursuing and collaboration, which is reflected here today. We transformative initiatives. also appreciate the political dialogues between the EU and Africa. I can confidently argue that the three As I conclude, I wish to underscore a few points form an important triangle of collaboration that is key that should underpin EU-AU cooperation, which we to the maintenance of international peace and security. believe is a building block for wider EU-AU-United It is in that spirit that I call for the EU to continue Nations cooperation. deepening its cooperation and partnership with Africa First, there is need to reinvigorate the dialogue and its subregional mechanisms. We must build on between the AU Peace and Security Council and the what the AU-EU-United Nations trilateral cooperation EU Political and Security Committee, as envisaged by is delivering today. I will mention just a few initiatives the AU-EU partnership. in that regard. Secondly, Africa will take on the primary role of First, the EU has deployed more than a dozen designing solutions to African challenges that can be missions in Africa under the Security Council’s supported by international partners. authorization, with several other EU missions and Thirdly, there should be a renewed focus on operations being deployed in parallel. prevention and peacebuilding through support for Secondly, through the African Peace Facility, measures to address the root causes of conflict, EU funding spanning over a decade has enabled the including development and economic empowerment. functioning and operations of the African Union We believe that the EU can support the Peacebuilding Mission in Somalia. We repeat the call by the African Commission even further. Union for the United Nations to augment EU support Fourthly, cooperation and collaboration on climate by providing adequate, predictable and sustainable change-related conflict should be scaled up from funding, including through assessed contributions. I studies and the development of response strategies to want to recognize how crucial EU support has been the implementation of such strategies at the grass-roots in tackling Al-Shabaab, and can therefore say that EU level. support has directly saved lives. Fifthly, to add to the very laudable points made by Thirdly, the EU has extended significant diplomatic, Mr. Borrell Fontelles, the EU should continue to support technical and resource support to the peace process led Africa in its COVID-19 response by mitigating the by the Intergovernmental Authority on Development challenges of vaccine access, including by supporting (IGAD), including the implementation mechanisms of efforts for local vaccine production and distribution. the Revitalized Agreement on the Resolution of the Allow me to return briefly to the values with which Conflict in South Sudan. We urge the EU to remain I began my remarks. To those values must be added steadfast in those efforts, which are crucial to the pragmatism and respect for the choices of peoples as stability of the Horn of Africa region. expressed in their sovereign States. In order for those Fourthly, the EU Emergency Trust Fund for Africa values to survive and thrive, it is critical that they lead continues to offer benefits in capacity-building in the to no catastrophic harm, whether by virtue of their 21-147285/24 S/PV.8792 Cooperation between the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations 10/06/2021 exploitation to advance narrow interests or in the zeal continuing cooperation with the EU as we work to that leads them to imperil the stability or even peace recover from COVID-19 and better prepare ourselves of some regions. I urge that the EU, Africa and all for future pandemics, including through our shared members of the Council take care to do no great harm, support for a global pandemic treaty. even as we push to ensure that our values are alive in We look forward to welcoming the Secretarythe world. General and the Presidents of the European Council and Finally, Kenya is grateful for the contribution of the European Commission to the United Kingdom later the EU to regional peace and security and development. this week for the G-7 leaders’ meeting. We are using We will continue to work with the EU and its member our G-7 presidency to promote global health objectives States, both at the bilateral level and within regional and support the world’s poorest. and subregional frameworks, in that regard. Our shared work will need to continue at pace after I thank Mr. Borrell Fontelles for his briefing, and the G-7 as we head towards the twenty-sixth session I thank the Estonian presidency for convening this of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations debate. Framework Convention on Climate Change in Glasgow, Mr. Roscoe (United Kingdom): We very much where we hope that the world can finally turn the tide welcome High Representative Borrell Fontelles’ on the climate crisis. We are grateful for the steps attendance at the Security Council today and thank him already taken by the European Union, including the for his briefing. We agree entirely with his emphasis on submission of an ambitious 2030 nationally determined the importance of multilateralism. contribution. We count on the European Union’s support for an ambitious outcome and a cleaner, greener The United Nations-centred, international rulesfuture for us all, but especially for those countries most based system provides a foundation for coordinated vulnerable to the impacts of climate change — the same and collective action, including through regional countries that Prime Minister Johnson and other world organizations, in order to address our biggest challenges, leaders called on us to support in the Council back in as exemplified so eloquently just now by Ambassador February (see S/2021/198). I want to thank Mr. Borrell Kimani. We welcome the role that the European Union Fontelles for the important point he made about the link (EU) has played in upholding international norms between climate change and climate security and the across a range of forums, from the Group of Seven (G7) to the United Nations, including through the special need for us to address that issue in the Council. session of the Human Rights Council on Myanmar that Multilateralism continues to be central to we co-chaired earlier this year. addressing issues within the European sphere. Along As High Representative Borrell Fontelles set out, with the European Union and other international there is no greater global challenge than that posed partners, we have repeatedly called on Russia in the by the coronavirus disease (COVID-19). As Foreign Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe to Secretary Raab emphasized in the Council in February cease its destabilizing actions in Ukraine. The United (see S/2021/157) and, as we subsequently agreed in Kingdom will continue to work with the European resolution 2565 (2021), combating and sustainably Union and other partners in support of international recovering from COVID-19 requires greater national, law and the wider rules-based international system to regional and international cooperation and solidarity. defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity We therefore welcome the EU’s staunch support, as within its international recognized borders. Mr. Borrell Fontelles said, for the Access to COVID-19 On Belarus, we share High Representative Tools Accelerator initiative and EU financial Borrell Fontelles’ concern regarding the actions of the contributions to the COVID-19 Vaccine Global Belarusian authorities, including the forced landing Access Facility. of Ryanair Flight FR-4978 and the arrest of journalist The United Kingdom was proud to host the Global Roman Protasevich. We continue to urge the Belarusian Vaccine Summit just over a year ago, which surpassed authorities to respect the will of the Belarusian people, its target and raised $8.8 billion. We have made some as well as their fundamental freedoms, human rights progress but there is more to do. We look forward to and the rule of law. 6/24 21-14728 10/06/2021 Cooperation between the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations S/PV. 8792 On the Western Balkans, we strongly support the sanctions and promoting the rights and prosperity of EU-facilitated dialogue under Special Representative women, including through girls’ education. I think you Miroslav Lajčák on the normalization of relations will agree, Mr. President, that when we work together, between Serbia and Kosovo. We continue to encourage we are a force for good in the world. closer cooperation between the EU and NATO to Mr. Polyanskiy (Russian Federation) (spoke in promote democratic values, prevent destabilization Russian): We welcome the High Representative of and facilitate progress towards European and Eurothe European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Atlantic integration. The United Kingdom continues Policy, Mr. Josep Borrell Fontelles, and we listened to play a significant role in the NATO presence in the very carefully to his assessments. Western Balkans, working with partners, including the European Union-led peacekeeping force Operation We are in favour of developing cooperation between Althea in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to support defence the United Nations and regional and subregional reform and peace. organizations on the basis of the United Nations Charter, first and foremost its chapter VIII. Cooperation High Representative Borrell Fontelles underlined with the European Union (EU) is no exception, which the primary responsibility of the Council for the should also be organized on this basis and within the maintenance of international peace and security, and framework of General Assembly resolution 65/276 of we recognize the contribution of the EU towards 2011. We also believe that regional structures should resolving issues on the Council’s agenda. That includes complement United Nations efforts in their areas of the role of the EU in support of a diplomatic solution responsibility and within their mandates. Therefore, to the revitalization and restoration of the Joint among the priorities for cooperation between the United Comprehensive Plan of Action. We continue to work Nations and the EU, we see collective cooperation in together to bring Iran back into compliance with its countering cross-border threats and challenges, as well commitments and restore the benefits of that deal for as fostering dialogue on counter-terrorism, to be of prime all parties. importance. This kind of cooperation has significant The EU and the United Kingdom continue to work potential, and we fully support these approaches. closely on Libya, including through engagement with At the same time, however, it is vitally important the Berlin process towards a sustainable, Libyan-owned that cooperation between the United Nations and the political settlement. We support continued efforts to EU lead to strengthening multilateral approaches to enforce the United Nations arms embargo through global affairs and not to erode or revise them. True the European Union Naval Force Mediterranean multilateralism entails consistent support of the central Operation IRINI. role of the United Nations. Promoting such dubious We welcome the EU’s continued focus on Africa, concepts as the “rules-based” order or imposing as set out moments ago by Ambassador Kimani. In block approaches and attempts to present one’s own Somalia, we have been united with the EU and other experience and achievements as a gold standard that international partners in calling for a consensus-based other countries should implement at home bears no way forward on elections. We welcome the recent resemblance to multilateralism, and often leads to agreement between Somali leaders to that end. Of blatant interference in the affairs of other States. We course, we strongly support the work of the African would caution against the use of these approaches, for Union Mission in Somalia and hope that the EU will example, in relation to Belarus. be able to continue its essential financial support in Russia-EU relations at present are unfortunately at building Somali security. their lowest ebb in history. This is a separate issue and not As we have shown in our work in the G-7 and here in the topic of today’s meeting. But I must say that, rather New York at the United Nations across a range of shared than adopting a careful and patient collective approach global challenges, the EU and the United Kingdom to seeking compromise and constructive solutions with share a resolve to tackle the common challenges we all partners within the General Assembly and Security face. That includes supporting human rights, including, Council, our European partners increasingly often as Mr. Borrell Fontelles said, for those in Hong Kong; choose a destructive unilateral approach. This gives tackling conflict; coordinating on human rights rise to nothing but the gravest of concerns. 21-147287/24 S/PV.8792 Cooperation between the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations 10/06/2021 The most obvious example of the line that has at these negotiations. The same wish also applies to been taken by the EU is the actively development and EU policy in the Balkans as a whole. We call on our then arbitrary application of illegal, unilateral coercive colleagues to be careful in their approach to decisions measures that have been approved in circumvention of of universal application reached within the United the Security Council and of international legal norms. Nations and to refrain from ignoring or selectively Contrary to the official statements on the targeted reading them, which could run the risk of undermining nature of these mechanisms, their unlawful nature the legitimacy of a whole host of structures in the region. substantially hinders the socioeconomic situation in affected countries and leads to falling standards of Finally, we would note the ever more frequent living for ordinary people. This has been confirmed by attempts of our colleagues from the EU to relevant studies by United Nations officials. promote — through various means, including through United Nations instruments — their own approaches Again, we would draw the attention of Brussels on gender, human rights, climate and other topics, to the fact that this practice does not lead to a change presenting them as allegedly universal and benefiting in State policy. On the contrary, it leans towards from consensus. There are an increasing number neocolonialism and causes affected States and all rightof examples of this practice, and I would like to minded countries to unite to defend the interests of immediately warn the Council that we intend to fight their own peoples and the basic principles of inter-State against it more adamantly and uncompromisingly, as it cooperation as enshrined in the United Nations Charter. reflects efforts by the EU to replace international law Even in the context of the coronavirus disease with the so-called rules-based order. pandemic, the EU did not heed the call of United Nations I would not want my statement to give the Secretary-General Guterres to suspend unilateral impression that Russia has a negative attitude towards coercive measures for humanitarian purposes. This the EU. That is not the case. We are neighbours on a indifference to human suffering does nothing for the continent, and we are interested in cooperating on EU’s reputation on the international stage. ideology and on dialogue. However, dialogue should be The EU is an important regional player, and its built on both parties having equal footing and mutual assistance to the United Nations is necessary. However, respect for one another. the efforts of the EU should not go beyond the We have many questions that have accrued over frameworks set forth in Security Council mandates. in recent years, which we would like to put to the EU, but this context, we still have questions about the European Union Naval Force Mediterranean Operation IRINI, as we ask them while putting particular focus on specific one of its objectives is to assist in the fulfilment of the facts. I would also like the EU to take that approach United Nations arms embargo on Libya. We called on and refrain from promoting fake news or arbitrary the EU to tread very carefully in this region, which is accusations along the lines of “highly likely”. The EU still unable to recover from the forcible destruction of can and should play a constructive role in Europe and the Libyan State 10 years ago. A series of EU members around the world. We see here significant potential. We were directly involved in that effort. have highly valued, inter alia, the role that the EU has played as a coordinator of the commission to monitor We have great expectations from the EU as a the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. mediator in the Belgrade-Pristina dialogue, even more so given the fact that the General Assembly gave the There are also other areas where there has been EU a special mandate to this end. We must state that, so successful cooperation. The main point is that the EU far, we have seen no significant results. In that regard, understands that in the modern world there is no place we would recommend to our European colleagues for hegemony and dominance. that, rather than playing up to Pristina, they should In the EU, there are many people who recognize ensure that Pristina fulfils already agreed parameters, the counterproductive nature of the confrontational including finally creating a community of Serbian approach adopted towards our country as well as the municipalities in Kosovo. erroneous line that has been held in regions in our Once again, we called on the EU not to deviate from neighbourhood over recent years. The culmination of the principle of impartiality during their mediation that was seen in the anti-constitutional bloody coup in 8/24 21-14728 10/06/2021 Cooperation between the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations S/PV. 8792 Ukraine and the nationalism, neo-Nazism, Russophobia extending support to bilateral and regional initiatives, and antisemitism in that country. including to the Group of Five for the Sahel and the EU Military Training Missions in Central African We trust that at the end of the day common sense will prevail and that we will be able to select a new Republic and Mali. The EU should continue to augment balanced model for our relationship, with a focus on national efforts to address security-related challenges the principles of international law. This equal and and maintain a balance in priorities in the context of honest cooperation is something in which Russia has recovery and peacebuilding in Africa. The EU-African already always been ready to engage. We trust that Union partnership should focus on finding African our European colleagues will be able to make the right solutions to African problems. choice and overcome the many unfortunate trends that As the world continues to be confronted with peace I have mentioned. and security challenges, exacerbated by the ongoing The EU stands to gain from this new approach as coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic situation, would its international partners, including of course there is merit in strengthening partnerships and Russia and the other States Members of the United enhancing linkages between the United Nations and Nations that are interested in developing a constructive regional organizations, such as the EU. In that context, and effective type of cooperation with the Union, I have the following five observations to make. alongside other regional and subregional organizations. First, the EU has broken new ground in developing Mr. Tirumurti (India): Let me begin by thanking effective tools for conflict prevention, peacebuilding, High Representative of the European Union for Foreign crisis management and post-conflict rehabilitation. We Affairs and Security Policy, Josep Borrell Fontelles, for believe that the EU has an important role to play in his briefing. Mr. Borrell Fontelles is a strong advocate tackling global challenges, with the United Nations at of the India-European Union Strategic Partnership. I the core of multilateral efforts. join others in extending a warm welcome to the Security Council to him. The United Nations and the project of Secondly, the EU continues to have an important the European Union (EU) have a common origin, both role to play in a reformed United Nations-centred having been founded after the Second World War. The multilateral system, and we expect the EU to firmly driving principles and values of both organizations support ongoing reform efforts. are similar. Today the EU is a natural partner of the Thirdly, in the current difficult circumstances United Nations in addressing global peace and security caused globally by the pandemic, the multilateral challenges, as well as advancing development efforts. mechanisms need to work with regional organizations We therefore welcome today’s briefing. to ensure resilient medical supply chains, vaccines Cooperation between the United Nations and the and active pharmaceutical ingredients. The EU can EU has addressed issues not only limited to Europe, but be an important player in that direction and help also in many theatres of conflict across continents. In global recovery. the Balkans, the EU is at the forefront of efforts aimed at promoting peace, reconciliation, stability, freedom and Fourthly, the EU has an important role to play in economic prosperity. On several occasions, the EU has our continued fight against terrorism and other new and brought together important stakeholders in situations emerging threats. In that regard, I would like the EU to of conflict by strongly supporting donor conferences give due consideration to the eight-point action plan on and charting peace plans. The key role of the EU, as counter-terrorism proposed by India’s External Affairs a member of the Quartet, in the Middle East peace Minister on 11 January while addressing the Security process is acknowledged, as is its role in preserving the Council (S/2021/48, annex 5). Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action with Iran. Fifthly, we note the significant financial contribution The role of the EU has been growing in Africa of the EU member States to the United Nations as well. Its complementary efforts towards conflict peacekeeping budget and voluntary contributions to resolution and in addressing security challenges, United Nations programmes. The contribution of the including terrorism, have contributed positively to the EU to the progress of the global discourse on climate efforts of the United Nations in Africa. The EU is also change and the Sustainable Development Goals has 21-147289/24 S/PV.8792 Cooperation between the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations 10/06/2021 been noteworthy, and we will continue to work closely Today the United Nations and the EU work in to find a balanced approach to implement such ends. lockstep as natural partners all around the world to eradicate poverty, protect human rights and overcome The India-EU strategic partnership is guided by our the global health crisis that we have all seen in the shared interests, principles and values of democracy, coronavirus disease (COVID-19). pluralism, freedom and respect for the rule of law and human rights. India and the EU have a common As a proud member of the EU, Ireland understands interest in ensuring security, prosperity and sustainable the power of cooperation among nations in meeting our development in a multipolar world. We believe that common challenges. We believe in it. The harrowing India’s relations with Europe and the EU are a force for experience of the pandemic has surely taught us one good globally. thing — that the power of coordinated action at the international and regional levels greatly eclipses that of India and the EU share a common perspective on any unilateral response. many regional and global issues, including a shared The EU is the world’s leading development donor commitment to promoting an international rules-based and a key partner of the United Nations in crisis order based on reformed and effective multilateralism. management. In those roles, the EU demonstrates just India’s desire to work constructively with the EU is how complementary it is to the United Nations in the reflected in the newly-instituted dialogues on maritime way that it works and, I would say more importantly, security as well as climate change. India welcomes the how it acts. That makes the EU and the United Nations EU’s recently-announced strategy for cooperation in the strong and influential natural partners. Indo-Pacific and looks forward to greater cooperation to ensure a free, open, inclusive and rules-based IndoThe EU has enhanced its capacity to prevent Pacific, premised upon respect for international law and conflict, preserve peace and strengthen international stability and security in support of the United the territorial integrity and sovereignty of all States. Nations. Two new instruments will deliver on that: India and the EU recently concluded a successful the Neighbourhood, Development and International leaders’ meeting in May. We launched a connectivity Cooperation Instrument and the European Peace partnership to enhance connectivity in conformity with Facility. The strategic partnership with the United international norms and rules of law and respect for Nations is a key element for the future orientation of international commitments. We also agreed to intensify the EU’s action in security and defence. our economic engagements, including by resuming From Kosovo to the Middle East and throughout negotiations on trade and investment agreements and Africa, EU missions are deployed alongside United working together on World Trade Organization reforms. Nations peacekeeping operations or special political India’s partnership with the EU manifests itself in missions. Some of those EU missions, such as the cooperation towards tackling current global issues, European Union Naval Force Operation Atalanta, such as COVID-19, climate change and terrorism and combating piracy off the coast of Somalia, play strengthening multilateral institutions. India remains a central role in responding to threats to peace. committed to working with the EU in that endeavour. Others, such as the training mission in Mali, which complements the United Nations Multidimensional Ms. Byrne Nason (Ireland): I would like to warmly Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali, support welcome High Representative Borrell Fontelles today security sector reform. Irish experts are seconded to and to thank him for his thought-provoking intervention. EU missions in Europe, the Caucasus, the Middle East We are very delighted to have him with us. and Africa, while members of the Irish Defence Forces The steadfast belief of the European Union (EU) participate in missions and operations in Mali, Bosnia in multilateralism and its strong commitment to the and Herzegovina and the Mediterranean. United Nations are borne of its lived experience of We are proud to have supported, together with conflict and peacebuilding on the continent of Europe. our EU partners, mediation and peace processes in That is why respect for the principles of the Charter of Colombia, Afghanistan, Georgia, the Philippines and the United Nations is actually written into the Treaty on Mozambique. As EU Special Envoy for the Peace European Union. Process in Colombia, our former Deputy Prime 10/24 21-14728 10/06/2021 Cooperation between the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations S/PV. 8792 Minister, Eamon Gilmore, has represented the EU, place in a responsible, coordinated and graduated while bringing the lessons learned from Ireland’s own manner, responsive to the specific needs on the ground. peace process to the table. We certainly believe that there is scope for enhanced EU-United Nations coordination on peacebuilding and The EU works closely with many partners the valuable Peacebuilding Fund. around this table in the Security Council in support of international peace and security. We work as a Finally, the multilateral system must deliver in member of the Middle East Quartet, as a facilitator of response to COVID-19 by building back better. That the Belgrade-Pristina dialogue and as a coordinator almost sounds like a cliché. What it means is debt relief. of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. Ireland, It means equitable access to vaccines. It means access as facilitator for resolution 2231 (2015), will assist to sustainable financing. It must include green recovery the Security Council in upholding that important to meet the existential challenge of climate change. On key agreement. that we are very clear. I believe that the Security Council should encourage The EU has a pivotal role to play on all those and welcome such cooperation and utilize the EU’s issues and more. I know that it will continue to show support for the United Nations where it can. its trademark dedication, generosity and focus in delivering on such critical goals. We welcome the trilateral cooperation between the United Nations, the EU and the African Union, as well Mr. Dang (Viet Nam): I would like to welcome as United Nations cooperation with the Organization for the participation of His Excellency Mr. Josep Borrell Security and Cooperation in Europe and the Association Fontelles, High Representative of the European of Southeast Asian Nations. Those partnerships play Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, to this important roles in addressing issues that concern all meeting today, and to thank him very much for his of us, encouraging dialogue, respect for human rights detailed briefing. and humanitarian assistance. The partnerships also We live in a complex world faced with intersecting play a role in seeking peaceful solutions to the crises and unprecedented challenges, from long-standing in Myanmar and Ethiopia. They play roles in support issues, such as displacement, climate change, natural of peaceful, inclusive, democratic and time-bound disasters, poverty, hunger, inequality, violence and transitions in Mali and Chad. conflicts to the recent coronavirus disease (COVID-19) Despite that good work, many challenges remain. pandemic. It is abundantly clear that those issues cannot We need to continue to make real progress on delivering be tackled by any country alone. Multilateralism and on the women and peace and security agenda. We partnership are the undisputed means to address them. strongly support the really valuable United Nations-EU While the United Nations plays the central role Spotlight Initiative on eliminating all forms of violence in mobilizing and coordinating global efforts in that against women and girls. We urge that women and regard, the importance of the contributions of regional peace and security remain at the core and one of the organizations are becoming more and more tangible to EU-United Nations priorities on peace operations and both global goals and regional priorities. Cooperation crisis management as we move forward. We see that between the United Nations and regional organizations as fundamental. is essential to the promotion of international and We are committed to ensuring that we address regional peace, security, stability and development. climate-related security risks, where relevant, in our Their complementarities enable greater opportunities prevention and peacebuilding work across the EU and for dialogue, understanding, reconciliation and the United Nations. confidence-building measures to prevent and resolve conflicts. Another area in which we see scope for greater cooperation is in improving mission transitions. We reiterate our support for the role of regional Peacekeeping must be linked to peacebuilding in order organizations with regard to the work of the United to disrupt cycles of violence, prevent conflict and Nations, including the Security Council, in accordance sustain the peace we are trying to instil. Cooperating with Chapter VIII of the Charter of the United Nations closely, we can ensure that mission transitions take and the fundamental principles of international law. 21-1472811/24 S/PV.8792 Cooperation between the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations 10/06/2021 The high-level open debate on “Enhancing cooperation Cooperation between the United Nations between the United Nations and regional and subregional and regional organizations can also benefit from organizations in enhancing confidence-building strengthened partnership and experience sharing and dialogue in conflict prevention and resolution” among regional organizations themselves or within (S/2021/394) and the following presidential statement innovative plurilateral modalities. There are countless in April (S/PRST/2021/9) further strengthened our opportunities and areas for cooperation, such as commitment in that regard. confidence-building measures, mediation, the women and peace and security agenda, climate change and The strategic cooperation between the United peacekeeping training, to name just a few. Nations and the European Union (EU) has advanced across various areas of peace and security, as well Before concluding, I would like to reaffirm Viet as sustainable development and economic growth. Nam’s readiness and commitment to enhancing the We commend the EU’s continued commitment to role and contributions of regional organizations to multilateralism, as reaffirmed by Mr. Borrell Fontelles the work of the United Nations and foster relations today. We also recognize the work done by the EU between ASEAN and the United Nations, as well as in connection to various issues on the agenda of the other partners. Security Council. Mr. Ladeb (Tunisia) (spoke in Arabic): I welcome With regard to peacekeeping, the EU’s significant Mr. Josep Borrell Fontelles and thank him for his financial and personnel contributions remain vital valuable briefing. to the promotion of international peace and security. The European Union (EU) is an important partner We appreciate the ongoing collaboration between the to the United Nations in maintaining international peace United Nations and EU peacekeeping missions to and security. According to Chapter VIII of the Charter enhance security and advance political solutions in of the United Nations, the cooperation between the two conflict areas, including through the implementation of organizations provides important support and makes an the United Nations-EU Strategic Partnership on Peace effective contribution to addressing joint challenges, Operations and Crisis Management for the period 2019whether they are conventional or emerging, similar to 2021 and the signing of the Framework Agreement the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic and its Between the United Nations and the European Union various implications. for the Provision of Mutual Support in the context of My country’s delegation welcomes the active their respective missions and operations in the field contribution of the EU to the comprehensive COVID-19 last September. We encourage even closer cooperation response plan and its important support to the among the two organizations in the future, for instance COVID-19 Vaccine Global Access Facility to ensure in the areas of mediation, confidence-building and the fair access to vaccines. promotion of multilateralism. The cooperation between the United Nations and In South-East Asia, the Association of Southeast the EU is particularly visible in Africa, where the EU Asian Nations (ASEAN) has been playing a is actively contributing at the political, technical and constructive role in strengthening solidarity and financial levels to supporting many conflict-resolution building a region of peace, stability and development. and peacebuilding initiatives and tracks. In that context, To that end, ASEAN attaches great importance to we recall the EU’s contribution to training security nurturing close cooperation with external partners, forces and providing technical assistance with a view including the EU. In December last year, the relations to reforming the security sector in the Central African between ASEAN and the EU were elevated to strategic Republic, Mali and Somalia. We also recall its active partnership. That is an important milestone that builds contribution, alongside the League of Arab States and on existing achievements and enhances efforts to the African Union, to supporting the political process effectively implement the ASEAN-EU Plan of Action in Libya and its important role, through the European 2018-2022. We are also pleased that the long-standing Union Naval Force Mediterranean Operation IRINI, comprehensive partnership between ASEAN and the to addressing violations of the arms embargo imposed United Nations has continued to develop positively. on Libya. 12/24 21-14728 10/06/2021 Cooperation between the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations S/PV. 8792 My country also commends the constructive role of Mr. Hunter (United States of America): The United the EU in the Middle East in supporting international States would like to thank Estonia for organizing this efforts to resume the peace process towards achieving important and timely briefing and High Representative a two-State solution based on the agreed international Borrell Fontelles for his remarks today. parameters, particularly Security Council resolutions. The partnership between the United States and the My country also commends the continuous support of European Union (EU) is built on a foundation of shared the EU to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action on values. It is built on a common vision that includes Iran’s nuclear programme and its efforts to guarantee a commitment to democracy and the rule of law, the continuity of that important framework for respect for human rights, the promotion of economic non-proliferation and disarmament. opportunity and the pursuit of transatlantic prosperity We believe in the close links between peace, and security. security and human rights, on the one hand, and The European Union remains an indispensable sustainable development, on the other hand. My partner to the United States and our efforts to promote country’s delegation commends the role of the EU in global security and prosperity, and Europe’s security supporting efforts to enhance development cooperation and success are inextricably linked to our own. President and strengthening and protecting human rights and Biden will meet Presidents Michel and Von der Leyen basic freedoms. on 15 June to discuss a common agenda to ensure We reiterate our support for the efforts of the global health security, build a sustainable economic EU to protect civilians in armed conflicts, especially recovery, fight climate change, enhance digital trade and cooperation, push back against malign behaviour its initiatives to protect women, girls and children and address global challenges. affected by such conflicts. We also support the EU commitment to preventing sexual and gender-based Together, the United States and the EU have violence and providing victims with protection against pledged funding towards coronavirus disease it, as well as its efforts to strengthen the role of women (COVID-19) vaccine distribution efforts and the health in all peace and security initiatives, particularly those and humanitarian response. We are working to defeat aimed at preventing, resolving and reducing the impact COVID-19, rebuild our communities, rebuild our of conflicts. economies, strengthen our trade networks and come back even stronger. Furthermore, with respect to security, peace and sustainable development, we reaffirm the need to The United States deeply appreciates the European strengthen cooperation between the two organizations Union’s contributions across the globe, including its in order to achieve the goals of the 2030 Agenda for cooperation with the United Nations. In Africa, the Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement EU has played a key role in counter-terrorism, conflict on Climate Change and to work on putting in place a prevention, security assistance and peacebuilding. We comprehensive plan to reduce the impact of climate are grateful for the significant support the EU provides change as an emerging threat that exacerbates for peace and security initiatives in Africa, including vulnerability and conflicts. for the African Union Mission in Somalia, the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization We believe that common investment in youth for Mission in Mali and the Joint Force of the Group of comprehensive growth and sustainable development, Five for the Sahel. The European Union Naval Force as set out in the outcomes of the Abidjan summit, will Mediterranean Operation IRINI and its assistance in surely broaden the prospects for building a more stable implementing the arms embargo are contributing to future in Africa. peace and security in Libya. In conclusion, Tunisia reaffirms the importance of We share the EU’s deep concern about the human multilateral work and the need to strengthen cooperation rights violations, abuses and atrocities in Tigray, between the United Nations and other regional including the lack of access of humanitarian actors to organizations, similar to the cooperation between the the most vulnerable populations who are on the cusp United Nations and the EU, in order to tackle new of famine. We will continue to work closely with our challenges to international peace and security. EU partners to address crises — not only in Tigray, 21-1472813/24 S/PV.8792 Cooperation between the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations 10/06/2021 but around the world, including in Burma, Syria and have a critical role to play as contemporary peace and Venezuela. The Security Council can and must also do security issues become more globalized. It is only better in responding. through a multi-stakeholder approach that we can hope to address long-standing challenges such as climate and We greatly appreciate the EU’s critical role security, the proliferation of terrorism and the ongoing in holding Russia accountable for its violations of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic. international law. Moscow’s actions in Ukraine remain a threat to European security seven years Our delegation supports collaboration between after Russia’s intervention in eastern Ukraine and its the United Nations and the European Union, which occupation of Crimea. Our support and that of the EU has been an essential partner in addressing the global for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. In that regard, and Georgia is unwavering — whether via the United we applaud the European Union’s contributions to Nations system, other multilateral forums or bilaterally. the COVID-19 Vaccine Global Access Facility as we We will continue to stand with our allies and partners push to ensure equitable distribution of the COVID-19 in calling on Russia to immediate cease its evolving vaccine. We must continue to support such efforts as military, economic, diplomatic and disinformation we build back better. efforts to destabilize Ukraine and Georgia. Europe, like most locales around the world, has We also thank the European Union for its decisive, experienced the ramifications of the COVID-19 quick and clear action on the forced diversion of a flight pandemic. Many European countries were hard hit by between two EU member States and the subsequent the coronavirus, experiencing high infection rates and removal and arrest of journalist Roman Protasevich in fatalities. A coordinated approach to the post-pandemic Minsk. We will enhance our efforts, including through recovery will be critical. The European Union’s Next the coordination of our sanctions policies, to ensure Generation EU fund creates an opportunity to usher that the authorities of Belarus are held accountable for EU member States into a more sustainable future their actions. by rethinking financing, enhancing food security, addressing inequality and pushing for a more With regard to the dire human rights situation in circular economy. Belarus, we are committed to close coordination with the EU to promote transparency and accountability. Coordination between the United Nations and We support international efforts to independently EU continues to be invaluable in promoting global look into the human rights situation, including as it peace and security, especially on issues like the fight impacts Polish minority communities. In that regard, against terrorism and the pursuit of peaceful conflict we welcome efforts by the Office of the United Nations resolutions. The United Nations and the EU continue to High Commissioner for Human Rights, an international work closely together on several issues on the Security accountability platform for Belarus. Council’s agenda, including through the Framework Agreement Between the United Nations and the The United States unequivocally affirms the EU’s European Union for the Provision of Mutual Support in role as a crucial partner to the United Nations and, in the context of their respective missions and operations particular, to the Security Council in the maintenance in the field, signed in September. The framework of peace and security around the world. underscores the value of enhancing complementarity Ms. Prince (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines): between the two organizations. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines thanks the High AS a member of the Caribbean Community Representative of the European Union for Foreign (CARICOM), Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Affairs and Security Policy, Mr. Josep Borrell Fontelles, recognizes the vital role of regional and subregional for his comprehensive briefing. organizations in promoting economic integration The cooperation between the United Nations and the and social development. Organizations such as the European Union (EU) strengthens both organizations European Union, CARICOM, the African Union and and allows for a more coordinated approach to address the Association of Southeast Asian Nations utilize key key issues affecting Europe, its neighbours and the partnerships with national Governments and other local global community. Regional and subregional groups actors to better address peace and security challenges. 14/24 21-14728 10/06/2021 Cooperation between the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations S/PV. 8792 The EU, through its member States, has a significant to enhance cooperation and strengthen coordinated presence on the Security Council and is a feature in responses in peace operations in September 2020. the peace and security landscape across all regions. I wish to underscore three crucial points regarding We particularly value the EU’s cooperation on matters EU-United Nations cooperation. affecting conflict in Africa, where we pursue African solutions for African problems. It follows that, when First, the close, efficient and coordinated work of Africa speaks, we should all listen. the EU with the United Nations through its 18 civilian missions and military operations in Europe, Africa and Looking ahead, we hope for concrete progress with Asia is fundamental. In many cases, those missions share our EU partners on issues such as unilateral coercive a headquarters with their United Nations counterpart. measures that oftentimes do more harm than good, The coordination of efforts in peacekeeping, as well as the reversal of unfair financial blacklisting development, human rights and humanitarian assistance practices that hurt developing economies. is therefore vital to the performance of such missions. We conclude by reiterating our full support to We highlight the excellent cooperation in the cases of further enhance the cooperation between the United the European Union-led peacekeeping force Althea, Nations and regional and subregional organizations in the European Union Rule of Law Mission in Kosovo, line with Chapter VIII of the Charter. Such cooperation the European Union Naval Force Operation Atalanta remains essential for delivering the Council’s mandate and the European Union Naval Force Mediterranean for maintaining international peace and security. Operation IRINI, as examples. Mrs. Buenrostro Massieu (Mexico) (spoke in With regard to Operation IRINI, we hope that Spanish): I thank the High Representative of the concrete steps can soon be taken in coordination with European Union (EU) for Foreign Affairs and Security the Libyan authorities to protect the human rights and Policy, Mr. Josep Borrell Fontelles, for his outstanding dignity of migrants in the Mediterranean. briefing and welcome him to the Council. Secondly, as we witness conflicts becoming more The international community is at a complex entrenched, we note the crucial role played by the juncture which, despite the many challenges, opens up European Union in the management and handling great possibilities for generating collective cooperation of those crises. The EU plays an important role in schemes. Today’s meeting allows us to take stock of the stabilizing the Sahel through the deployment of its state of cooperation between the United Nations and technical training mission in Mali. In particular, we the European Union. Both the Charter of the United highlight the assistance the EU provides to the Malian Nations and the Lisbon Treaty recognize the importance armed forces in terms of respect for human rights and of cooperation between international organizations. protection of civilians, as well as its participation in the Sahel Alliance, which addresses development and In conflict prevention, crisis management, governance — issues that lie at the heart of the conflicts peacekeeping and peacebuilding, regional and in the region. subregional organizations play a key role, given that they are well positioned to understand the origins In the case of the Middle East, we recognize the and root causes of conflicts, as well as to promote work of the EU in the framework of the Middle East confidence-building measures and tailor-made political Quartet, the early reactivation of which we look dialogue schemes. Although we refer to regional and forward to in order to achieve a two-State solution for subregional organizations in general terms, it is Israel and Palestine. important to point out that they have diverse mandates We are closely following the efforts of the EU and capacities. in conflict management in Europe, in particular in In that connection, with regard to the European Ukraine, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kosovo and Union, my country recognizes the importance of road Nagorno-Karabakh regions, among others. We also maps for the establishment of strategic priority areas that recognize the importance of the process to gradually guide the strategic partnership between the EU and the integrate the Western Balkans into the European Union, United Nations, as well as the signing of the agreement as Mr. Borrell Fontelles mentioned earlier. 21-1472815/24 S/PV.8792 Cooperation between the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations 10/06/2021 Finally, Mexico underlines the importance of together towards mutually beneficial outcomes. It continuing to make progress on cross-cutting issues should abandon double standards, avoid bloc politics such as gender. Women play a fundamental role in and oppose division and confrontation. the peace and security agenda, hence why we must Earlier, Mr. Borrell Fontelles and the representative take advantage of their contributions and guarantee of the United Kingdom mentioned Hong Kong in their their participation in all processes and at all levels of decision-making. statements. I would like to remind them that Hong Kong is a special administrative region of the People’s Mexico calls for increased efforts to foster Republic of China. Purely and simply, any matter cooperation between the European Union and other related to Hong Kong is part of China’s internal affairs, regional and subregional mechanisms, in particular in which there is no place for external interference. the African Union, the League of Arab States and the Moreover, it has nothing whatsoever to do with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, among others. theme of today’s meeting. It is only through an interconnected and efficient network that we will see results in favour of sustainable China hopes that, in its foreign exchanges, the EU peace and effective multilateralism. will pursue the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of other States. China would like to Mr. Geng Shuang (China) (spoke in Chinese): see an EU that champions genuine multilateralism and I welcome the presence of Mr. Borrell Fontelles, the plays a greater, more positive and constructive role in High Representative of the European Union (EU) for international affairs. Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, at today’s meeting and thank him for his briefing. Over the years, the EU has done a great deal of useful work in neutralizing tensions and differences Strengthened cooperation between the Security between various parties, promoting the resolution Council and regional and subregional organizations of conflicts and relevant regional hotspot issues and helps to consolidate and strengthen international implementing Security Council resolutions. collective security mechanisms and maintain international peace and security while contributing to China acknowledges the EU’s efforts towards the the response to global challenges and promoting the resumption of compliance with the Joint Comprehensive common development of all countries. Plan of Action. We hope that the EU will continue to play a coordinating role and work with all parties China supports cooperation between the United Nations and the EU in accordance with the purposes concerned to help bring about an expeditious political and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. solution to the Iranian nuclear issue. We must work together to uphold and practice China looks forward to the EU’s continued true multilateralism. contribution to the maintenance of peace and stability The coronavirus disease pandemic has once again on the African continent, especially in terms of lending demonstrated how the interests of all countries of the greater support to African-owned peace operations. world are intertwined and that we share a common China commends the EU for its long-standing future. No country can stay out of harm’s way by assistance in improving the humanitarian situation looking after only its own interests and no country in the occupied Palestine territory. We hope the EU can fight the challenges of our time alone, making will continue to play a constructive role in promoting multilateralism imperative. a comprehensive, just and lasting solution to the The EU itself is the product of a multilateral response Palestinian issue. Further, China encourages the EU, to common challenges. As an important force on the as a player in the resolution of hotspot issues, to be world stage and an active advocate of multilateralism, mindful in fully respecting the sovereignty of the the EU should take the lead in complying with countries concerned, taking into serious consideration international law and the universally accepted and the realities of the countries in question, safeguarding recognized basic norms governing international the authority of the United Nations in earnest and relations. It should hold fast to the principles of mutual effectively strengthening coordination and cooperation respect, treating one another as equals and working with other regional organizations. 16/24 21-14728 10/06/2021 Cooperation between the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations S/PV. 8792 Secretary-General António Guterres has repeatedly of peace, reconciliation, democracy and human rights underscored that achieving sustainable and inclusive in Europe. development is the most effective way to tackle the root In Africa, the EU plays a key role in causes of conflict once and for all. As the largest provider peacebuilding, conflict prevention, security assistance of official development assistance, the EU should do and development. With Norway’s long-standing more to help developing countries in general and wartorn countries in particular so as to recover and rebuild engagement and commitments in Africa, we welcome and eliminate the root causes of conflict. We hope the High Representative’s remarks on this matter. We that the EU will further increase its international aid also look forward to seeing the further development efforts, place a greater focus on eradicating hunger and of the strategic partnership between the EU and poverty, developing health and education, promoting African Union. post-coronavirus disease (COVID-19) reconstruction, The report of the Panel on United Nations Peace and channel resources into areas where the most urgent Operations (S/2000/809), known as the Brahimi report, needs exist with a view to making a greater contribution and resolution 1327 (2000) on peace operations called to the efforts of developing countries to implement the for a clear division of labour between the United 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, achieve Nations and regional organizations. These documents sustainable development and promote and consolidate also encourage efforts aimed at promoting synergies, peace through development. and we welcome the EU’s endeavours in this regard. China attaches great importance to its relations In Libya, the EU contributes to the enforcement with the EU and has always seen the Union as an of resolution 1973 (2011) through the European Union important force in the process of forging a multipolar Naval Force Mediterranean Operation IRINI, and world. Both sides have extensive common interests the European Union Naval Force Operation Atalanta and broad prospects for cooperation in maintaining continues to contribute to enforcing the weapons world peace and promoting common development. embargo on Somalia in accordance with resolution China is ready to strengthen dialogue and exchanges 2182 (2014) as well as to protect vessels of the World with the EU, deepen our coordination and cooperation, Food Programme. join hands in tackling the COVID-19 pandemic and climate-change-related challenges, jointly safeguard The EU has also provided significant financial and genuine or true multilateralism, strengthen and improve technical support for African-led security initiatives global governance and work hand in hand to safeguard and has borne much of the financial support for the the international system with the United Nations at Joint Force of the Group of Five for the Sahel, where its core and the international order on the basis of new structures are needed to facilitate stable and more international law. diverse financing. Ms. Heimerback (Norway): I join others in warmly Norway and the EU share a common vision for welcoming High Representative Borrell Fontelles to the a free and democratic Europe. We share the EU’s Security Council today and thank him for his briefing. deep concern for the shrinking democratic space and In many ways, Norwegian foreign policy starts deteriorating human rights situation in Belarus. The in Europe. The European Union (EU) and its member forced landing of the passenger plane in May was a States are our close neighbours and friends, with shared blatant violation of international norms and a threat to values and interests, and this is reflected in our frequent European security. Norway fully supports the strong alignment with EU positions and measures, including and appropriate reactions from the EU. on key issues on the agenda of the Security Council. European security and international law are The EU is clearly shouldering its responsibilities also undermined by the conflict in Ukraine. Norway as a steadfast promoter of multilateralism and as an welcomes the engagement of the EU in addressing implementer of Council-mandated tasks. We recognize this conflict and its support for Ukraine’s sovereignty the important role the EU has played in transforming and territorial integrity. Alongside our international Europe from a continent of war into a continent of partners, we will not accept Russia’s illegal annexation peace. The EU contributes to advancing the causes of Crimea and Sevastopol. 21-1472817/24 S/PV.8792 Cooperation between the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations 10/06/2021 It is of great importance that the EU and the United In the Sahel, the European Union is providing Nations continue to join forces to respond to global valuable support to the Joint Force of the Group of Five challenges. The coronavirus disease (COVID-19) is a for the Sahel, particularly in terms of equipment and case in point. Throughout the pandemic, the EU has by financing the support mechanism via the United demonstrated solidarity with the rest of the world and Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization its readiness to coordinate actions under the leadership Mission in Mali. This support remains insufficient. At of the United Nations. We welcome the EU’s leadership the N’Djamena summit, France, like the countries of in COVAX and the Access to COVID-19 Tools the Group of Five for the Sahel countries, the European Accelerator, including its distribution and export of Union and the African Union, again called for increased vaccines globally and efforts aimed at increasing global support for the Joint Force from the United Nations and vaccine-production capacities. all international partners. We would also like to pay tribute to the EU’s In Syria, the European Union and its member leading role in the fight against climate change. Norway States are the main contributors to the humanitarian cooperates closely with EU member States at the United response with more than €24 million committed since Nations and elsewhere to highlight and address the 2011. Europe will be able to contribute to the financing security risks that arise from climate change. of reconstruction only after a credible political solution based on resolution 2254 (2015) is firmly in place. Finally, we welcome the EU Action Plan on Women, Peace and Security 2019-2024 and the strong focus on On the Iranian nuclear issue, the European gender equality, human rights and peace and security coordinator and the other participants in the Joint within and beyond its borders. Council members can Comprehensive Plan of Action have been engaged rest assured that Norway will continue to advocate in discussions in Vienna for more than two months these priorities in cooperation with the EU, both inside to enable the United States and Iran to return to full and outside the Security Council. compliance with the 2015 agreement and resolution 2231 (2015). We hope for a swift conclusion. Mr. De Rivière (France) (spoke in French): I thank the High Representative of the European Union for In the Middle East, the European Union mobilized Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Mr. Josep Borrell to bring about a cessation of hostilities during the latest Fontelles, for his briefing. escalation of violence in Gaza. But, for the ceasefire to be sustainable, the underlying causes of the IsraeliThe European Union (EU) is providing concrete Palestinian conflict must be addressed by creating the solutions to threats to international peace and security. conditions for a resumption of the political process and With regard to the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) by implementing the two-State solution. That is the pandemic, the EU has demonstrated its commitment position of France and the European Union, which will by initiating the launch of the Access to COVID-19 continue to work towards that goal. Tools Accelerator in April 2020, together with the World Health Organization (WHO). It has initiated two In Libya, the European Union is fully committed resolutions that are paving the way for strengthening to ending the crisis. It is deploying the European Union the WHO and the multilateral health architecture. Naval Force Mediterranean Operation IRINI, whose priority is the implementation of the United Nations The COVAX facility, funded to the tune of more arms embargo on Libya. The EU can contribute to the than €2.4 billion by the European Union and its member implementation of the ceasefire agreement, under the States, has already made it possible to distribute nearly aegis of the United Nations, in full agreement with the 20 million doses of COVID-19 vaccine to 43 African Libyan parties. The United Nations should deploy the states. The EU’s humanitarian airlift has supported ceasefire-monitoring mechanism as soon as possible. United Nations efforts aimed at ensuring humanitarian Finally, in Afghanistan, the European Union is the access in the context of the pandemic. leading donor in supporting stability and preserving In the face of crises, the European Union and its the gains that benefit the Afghan people. As such, the member States are on the move. We collectively deploy European Union is fully entitled to contribute to the more than 5,000 personnel in peace operations. Let me intra-Afghan political negotiations, which are the only highlight some concrete examples. way to peace in Afghanistan. 18/24 21-14728 10/06/2021 Cooperation between the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations S/PV. 8792 On the European continent, the hijacking of a flight They cooperate closely in providing political, by the Belarusian authorities was a blatant reminder financial and operational assistance to peace processes that repeated human rights violations also have direct and peacekeeping operations. consequences for security in Europe. The European In Africa, for example, the partnership between Union responded firmly. the United Nations and the European Union manifests In Ukraine, the European Union mobilized to itself in the areas of conflict resolution and political, respond to the renewed tension on the eastern border technical and financial support to countries in fragile situations. In that regard, we can cite the strategic and in Crimea between March and April. Within the advisory support missions and the training and Normandy format, France and Germany are making equipping of defence and security forces through the every effort to relaunch the political process. European Union Common Security and Defence Policy We also hope that the European Union can continue missions in Niger and in Mali. to be involved in the intra-Cypriot talks conducted In the area of peacekeeping, my delegation under the aegis of the United Nations. welcomes and appreciates the EU’s role in the quest for Lastly, the promotion and protection of human stability in the Sahel and the Horn of Africa through its rights and fundamental freedoms are joint priorities, support for the African Union Mission in Somalia. as is the protection of civilians. The European Union In Libya, the European Union works closely with and its member States are committed to implementing the United Nations, the League of Arab States and the the relevant Security Council resolutions, in particular African Union to help Libyan actors to make genuine on the women and peace and security, the youth progress towards reconciliation through a national and peace and security and the children and armed dialogue and elections. We hope that the new European conflict agendas. Union Naval Force Mediterranean Operation IRINI will further contribute to the fight against breaches The Security Council can count on the strong of the arms embargo on Libya and to combating the commitment of the European Union and its member smuggling of migrants in the Mediterranean. States to working with the United Nations, within the framework of Chapter VIII of the Charter of the The fight against climate change is an area where the United Nations and the European Union, through United Nations, in all crisis areas and to contributing to pilot projects, are developing tools to combat the building a strong and vibrant multilateralism. risks related to climate fragility. In addition, the EU Mr. Abarry (Niger) (spoke in French): I would cooperates with the Office of the United Nations High like to thank Mr. Josep Borrell Fontelles, High Commissioner for Refugees and the International Representative of the European Union for Foreign Organization for Migration in providing advice on how Affairs and Security Policy, for his excellent briefing. to manage climate-induced displacement. Sharing the vision of a rules-based multilateral In addition, with regard to the global response to global governance system, the United Nations and the the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, the European Union and its member States have mobilized European Union respond to global crises, threats and €38.5 billion to address the humanitarian, health, challenges that require cooperation and coordination social and economic consequences of the health crisis. based on universal rules and values. Their partnership In 2020, the EU-sponsored pledging conference raised covers a variety of issues that are relevant to the $16 billion from donors around the world, providing challenges facing the world today. a major boost to the prevention and treatment of and For example, in the area of conflict prevention, vaccine research for COVID-19. peacekeeping and crisis resolution, the United Nations The United Nations and the European Union and the European Union work together to help build pool their efforts to strengthen cooperation on effective long-term security and governance institutions advancing, protecting and promoting human rights and and to conduct preventive diplomacy initiatives to fundamental freedoms. The European Union supports address emerging crises. the implementation of the Secretary-General’s call to 21-1472819/24 S/PV.8792 Cooperation between the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations 10/06/2021 action to advance the human rights of all human beings. condemn the Belarusian authorities’ blatant attempts to The human rights compliance framework signed with silence all opposition voices, including the episode of the countries of the Group of Five for the Sahel in that plane hijacking, and we demand the immediate release regard is an illustrative case. of all political prisoners, whose number is growing The adoption of the 2020-2024 Action Plan for rapidly and already extends to over 400. Human Rights and Democracy is also to be welcomed. The situation remains deeply concerning also in The Action Plan includes protecting and empowering Myanmar. We strongly support the five-point consensus individuals; building resilient, inclusive and democratic of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and the societies; promoting a global system for human rights work of Special Envoy Burgener in Myanmar. and democracy; harnessing the opportunities and challenges of new technologies; and acting by working The EU and its member States have always been together. By promoting the rule of law and justice, that strong advocates for a rules-based international order partnership is clearly helping to create conditions for and for international law. Estonia condemns Russia’s the maintenance of peace and security in many regions aggression against Ukraine in Donbas, the illegal of the world. annexation of Crimea and the occupation of the territories in Georgia. Russia’s recent military buildIn conclusion, my delegation believes that the up near Ukraine borders and continuous fuelling of work of the United Nations should continue to benefit the conflict in Donbas are truly worrisome and have from the partnership support that the Organization has aggravated the security situation in the region. It is with the European Union, the African Union and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations. By drawing on also regrettable that Russia, a party to the conflict, has the comparative advantages afforded by those regional chosen to use the Arria Formula meetings to extensively organizations, the United Nations will achieve its spread false and divisive narratives about Ukraine. primary objective of maintaining international peace Let me highlight the fact that the efforts of the and security. United Nations play an important role in advancing The President: I shall now make a statement in my responsible State behaviour in cyberspace. As a capacity as the representative of Estonia. priority, the EU and its member States are committed to promoting a global, free, open, stable and secure I warmly thank the High Representative for Foreign cyberspace, grounded in existing international law, Affairs and Security Policy of the European Union (EU), including the Charter of the United Nations in its Mr. Josep Borrell Fontelles, for joining us here today entirety, international humanitarian law and human and for highlighting the issues of close cooperation rights law. between the Security Council and the European Union in New York, in Brussels and on the ground. The EU has actively contributed to peace and security beyond the region and across all continents. The European Union and the United Nations share In crisis management, the partnership between the EU the same values and interests. The EU is committed to multilateralism, with the United Nations at its core. and the United Nations is crucial. That also includes the Estonia is glad that the cooperation between the two work on the implementation of the women and peace organizations has steadily and firmly expanded, as and security agenda, where the EU continues to show today’s world is becoming increasingly interconnected leadership also at the regional level. with regard to both its opportunities and its multifaceted Estonia welcomes the efforts of the European challenges. Sitting here as the President to the Security Union Naval Force Mediterranean Operation IRINI in Council and as a representative of an EU member State, supporting the implementation of the Security Council I can proudly profess that a strong EU equals a stronger arms embargo on Libya. We call for the implementation United Nations, and vice versa. of all necessary measures to allow for the Libyan-led Mr. Borrell Fontelles highlighted respect for human and Libyan-owned ceasefire monitoring mechanism rights and fundamental freedoms. Those are the values and its international support component to be deployed we share and stand up for. We need not be silent when as soon as possible, as mandated by resolution 2570 freedoms and human rights are suppressed. We strongly (2021). 20/24 21-14728 10/06/2021 Cooperation between the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations S/PV. 8792 Regarding the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, the EU I thank Mr. Borrell Fontelles once again for your and the United Nations have a central role to play in excellent briefing, which reminded us how deep, creating conditions for resuming direct negotiations important and multifaceted the EU-United Nations between the parties, especially through the Middle cooperation is. East Quartet. Continued humanitarian aid efforts in the occupied Palestinian territory are also vital. I now resume my functions as President of the Security Council. Regarding Yemen, there is a need for continued, concerted efforts of the EU and the United Nations The representative of the Russian Federation has towards a ceasefire and political talks, as well as asked for the floor to make a further statement. to support the development, crisis response and Ms. Evstigneeva (Russian Federation) (spoke in humanitarian assistance in the country. Russian): I should like to respond, first and foremost, In the Sahel region, the EU, including Estonia, to the statement delivered by the representative of offers important support to the counter-terrorist efforts the United States of America, the tone of which was of the Joint Force of the Group of Five for the Sahel. more bellicose and aggressive towards Russia than the remarks of the majority of our European colleagues. The EU, together with its member States, is also Perhaps because the United States of America is on the the largest donor of humanitarian aid in Syria and other side of the ocean, it does not really care what is the region. Estonia has contributed financially to the happening in Europe, but we are certain that it clearly humanitarian relief for Syria and the region since the understands how dangerous such fiery rhetoric and start of the crisis. The fifth Brussels Conference, held earlier this year, once again contributed billions to action can be. alleviating the human suffering of Syrian people. I would like once again to call on our sensible While cooperation between the United Nations European partners to be guided by the interests of their and the EU has strengthened in field operations, we common European home and stop looking for partners are glad that it has also strengthened on political and across the ocean, as they sometimes do so openly, and strategic levels. For example, in Afghanistan, efforts choose instead constructive cooperation on an equal to unitedly promote the rule of law have evolved. Both footing, without condescension and with respect for organizations have affirmed that a sustainable peace the sovereignty and internal affairs of neighbouring can be achieved only through a negotiated and inclusive countries, and to strive to impartially address the most political settlement. Estonia is extremely worried about delicate and dangerous situations on their borders. the growing level of violence, which has taken a heavy They must also understand that, without respect for toll on the civilian population. We urge the Taliban to people’s choices, including those living in Luhansk and immediately put an end to violence and commit itself Donetsk, and without direct dialogue with them, it will to the peace negotiations. The historic momentum for not be possible to achieve a resolution of the situation peace and stability that all Afghans have longed for in Donbas. after decades of immense human suffering should not be left unused. We still trust that we can count on that common-sense approach but, unfortunately, we must Mr. Borrell mentioned that sanctions are never an come to the conclusion that the European partners have end in themselves, but a tool to push for the respect of not quite got the hang of it yet, despite the laudable universal rights. We could not agree more. The EU and goals that were mentioned. the United Nations sanctions are targeted and do not obstruct in any way the fight against the pandemic or The President: I now give the floor to Mr. Borrell the delivery of humanitarian aid. Fontelles to respond to comments and possibly questions. Finally, there is no doubt that climate change Mr. Borrell Fontelles: I thank you, Sir, once is making the world a more challenging place. The again for allowing me to present today the views of Security Council must do more to fully understand the European Union on international security to the climate-related security risks and integrate that Security Council, which has maximum international knowledge into all aspects of its work. responsibility in that regard. 21-1472821/24 S/PV.8792 Cooperation between the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations 10/06/2021 It would be impossible to try to answer all the hand in hand with the United Nations and key regional questions or comment on all the considerations I have organizations to that end. I want to pay special tribute to heard here. But allow me to say that I am emerging the African Union in that regard, and we look forward from this exchange even more encouraged than when to working with many United Nations Member States we started. I am truly grateful to one and all for the on a bilateral basis. comments and expressions of appreciation. I can assure I would now like to touch upon some specific issues the Council that the European Union is willing to work that I must comment on. diligently with each and every one of the countries represented here in order to contribute to global security First, with regard to sanctions and criticism about and prosperity. sanctions, I want to say that the restrictive measures that the European Union imposes comply with That is the purpose of the European Union, and international law, including the obligations deriving I am also very grateful that many here today have from international human rights law and international acknowledged the efforts of the European Union to humanitarian law. There are key instruments at our contribute to a safer and more just world. I am particularly disposal to counter breaches of international law, the thankful for the recognition that the European Union proliferation of weapons and the flow of arms into war has been the tool for the transformation of Europe from zones, to combat human rights abusers and to target a continent of war to a continent of peace, which is the those individuals who seek to undermine the peace most important deliverable and success of what the process. In that connection, I want to thank the Council European Union has represented since its creation. members that spoke positively of the European Union Allow me to give some general and some specific Naval Force Mediterranean Operation IRINI. answers. As many here have noted, multilateral I also note that the principle of non-interference frameworks — and not only those provided by the in domestic affairs is not a licence to disregard human United Nations — must remain the centre of our efforts. rights, and we must invest in conflict prevention. This applies to peace and security, but also to health, However, European Union sanctions are not punitive, especially in these times of the coronavirus disease retaliatory or coercive in nature. Rather, they are (COVID-19) pandemic. The COVID-19 crisis has designed to bring about a change in policy or activity. shown the importance of reinforcing the Word Trade They are always targeted at policies or activities in order Organization and promoting development in many to ensure accountability. Our sanctions are reversible formats by combating climate change and a long series and proportionate to the objective they seek to achieve. of items that have been mentioned. As best we can, we reduce adverse humanitarian effects In this regard, it seems difficult to argue seriously or unintended consequences for non-targeted persons, that a rules-based world order structured around the in particular the civilian populations. principles of international organizations and the key Our sanctions are not intended to impede the international treaties and declarations is not the heart delivery of humanitarian assistance and humanitarian of the multilateral system, because it is. We must activities. We have a system of humanitarian exceptions, recognize it because we are living through a dangerous which is a standard feature of our sanctions regime and juncture in world history. We must understand that we is consistent with the system of exceptions used for are all part of the same whole, and that we can only United Nations sanctions. However, sanctions applied survive and prosper by recognizing common interests in the territory of the European Union by its persons and goals. We have repeated so many times that no one and entities do not have extraterritorial applications is safe until everyone is safe. That is true, but at the because we consider the extraterritorial application of same time, we have to recognize that it is easier said sanctions by third States to be contrary to international than done. And we have to increase our efforts to ease law. I think that must be clearly stated in response to international tensions and to return to some kind of certain criticisms. stronger cooperation. I would like to thank the representative of India In that context, a rules-based multilateral order for the positive words about the European Union’s role, is at the heart of the return to a more cooperative and in general, and particularly in the Balkans, Africa and peaceful approach. The European Union seeks to work Iran, as well as in the Joint Comprehensive Plan of 22/24 21-14728 10/06/2021 Cooperation between the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations S/PV. 8792 Action (JCPOA). The JCPOA was also mentioned by economic development, which has lifted so many others, especially Russia and China, as they are part of millions of people out of poverty in the past 40 years, the JCPOA Joint Commission, which I have the honour constitutes a historic record in the history of humankind. to chair as Coordinator. We acknowledge that extraordinary success. We recently held a summit between the European We also agree with the Ambassador’s statement Union and India in an excellent atmosphere. It led on multilateralism. We agree that no country can be to positive outcomes and we are forging a strategic fight today’s challenges or be multilateral alone, so I partnership that can be a force multiplier for the think that we must look for ways to establish the same global good in this century, as Prime Minister Modi understanding of what multilateralism means in theory said. I think that this meeting was a turning point in and in practice. our strategic partnership, with a particular emphasis On Hong Kong, we agree on the principle of “one on connectivity, trade and investment. I think that the country, two systems” which, by the way, comes from Indo-Pacific will be at the centre of our cooperation on an international agreement. However, we are very much foreign and security policy. To keep this region stable, concerned by the erosion of democratic principles open and rules-based, working on security, especially in Hong Kong due to recent changes in the electoral maritime security and counter-terrorism is a very system that, in our understanding and according to important part of our common endeavour. the question of fundamental freedoms, democratic The same goes for the comments from the principles and political pluralism, are central to Hong representative of Viet Nam. Kong’s identity and prosperity and are recognized under the international agreement on “one country, I would now like to turn to Libya, which has been two systems”. mentioned. We need to do our utmost to promote stability in Libya. We are engaging with the United I would like to thank the representative of China Nations in its efforts in that regard, as well as with for his words of appreciation regarding the European the Government of National Unity. We thank the Union’s support in Palestine, as well as our role in the Special Representative for his efforts and hope that Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action and our efforts the forthcoming Berlin Conference on Libya will to keep it alive. I think that there is still a lot of work give new impetus to the promotion of security and we must do together in order to solve the underlying stability in Libya, which is an important part of our conflict in Israel and Palestine and to ensure a return to security. We remain very active and ready to support a the Iran nuclear agreement, which contributes greatly political solution towards the maintenance of a peaceful to global security and to the security of our member environment in Libya. We have deployed several States, Europe and the broader Middle East region instruments in that regard — including the European in particular. Union Naval Force Mediterranean Operation IRINI, We will continue working together on the root which was commended by many here today — in causes of conflicts, on sustainable development and support of the implementation of the Security Council especially on climate change, which cannot be resolved arms embargo. We are probably one of the few without China’s strong involvement. international actors that are regularly reporting on their efforts to help implement the arms embargo, which Finally, I wish to make some comments regarding remains crucial for Libya’s stability. I wish that those Africa. Africa is our first partner in the field of peace and security. We are active in all crises and 10 of our 16 still harbouring doubts on the role played by European missions are deployed across the African continent. We Union Naval Force Mediterranean Operation IRINI have police officers, soldiers and civilian advisers from would display equal zeal in helping to ensure that the Europe training more than 30,000 African military, arms embargo is effectively implemented. That would police and judicial personnel. We are so extensively be a great contribution to those efforts. engaged with promoting peace and stability in Africa I would like to talk about China, because the that it would take too long to list everything we are Chinese representative made a very important comment. doing. Nevertheless, we strongly believe that African I want to stress the extent to which the European Union States must be the main actors for their own stability values its relationship with China. China’s impressive and security. We need African solutions to African 21-1472823/24 S/PV.8792 Cooperation between the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations 10/06/2021 problems, but it is important to keep in mind that solid era in terms of transatlantic relations that will benefit governance and development are integral in restoring the rest of the world. security and overcoming crises. The European Union strongly believes that the My final remarks are addressed to the representative future of humankind will depend strongly on our of the United States. This is a special time in our capacity to cooperate and to work together to overcome relationship with the United States. Just today, President conflicts and build a shared future for all of us. This Biden arrived on the European continent. Although he institution, namely the Security Council, plays such an has landed on an island that has just left the European important role in that endeavour that I must once again Union, it is still part of Europe. Next week, we will reiterate our will to strongly cooperate with it in order be holding important meetings at the highest level to achieve prosperity for us all. between President Biden and the Presidents of the The President: I thank Mr. Borrell Fontelles for European Union institutions, as well as several member the clarifications he has provided. States that have the honour to participate. I think it will There are no more names inscribed on the list be a good way to relaunch transatlantic relations from of speakers. both sides of the Atlantic. It is important to mark the fact that we are starting a new relationship and a new The meeting rose at 12.15 p.m. 24/24 21-14728
