United Nations S/PV.8864 Security Council Provisional Seventy-sixth year 8864 th meeting Thursday, 23 September 2021, 8 a.m. New York President: Taoiseach Martin. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Ireland) Members: China. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Zhang Jun Estonia. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . President Kaljulaid France . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Le Drian India . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ms. Sandhu Kenya. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ms. Omamo Mexico. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Casaubón Niger. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Massoudou Norway . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ms. Søreide Russian Federation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Polyanskiy Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ms. King Tunisia. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Jerandi United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . . Lord Ahmad United States of America. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Blinken Viet Nam . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . President Phuc Agenda Maintenance of international peace and security Climate and security Letter dated 9 September 2021 from the Permanent Representative of Ireland to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (S/2021/782) In accordance with the procedure set out in the letter by the President of the Security Council addressed to Permanent Representatives of Security Council members dated 7 May 2020 (S/2020/372), which was agreed in light of the extraordinary circumstances caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, this official record of the Security Council will be supplemented by a compilation of annexes (S/2021/815) containing the statements submitted by interested non-members of the Council. 21-26297 (E) *2126297* S/PV.8864 Maintenance of international peace and security 23/09/2021 The meeting was called to order at 8.05 a.m. Wildfires, flooding, drought and other extreme weather events are affecting every continent. Adoption of the agenda The effects of climate change are particularly The agenda was adopted. profound when they overlap with fragility and past or current conflicts. It is clear that climate change and Maintenance of international peace and security environmental mismanagement are risk multipliers. Climate and security Where coping capacities are limited and there is high dependence on shrinking natural resources and Letter dated 9 September 2021 from the ecosystem services such as water and fertile land, Permanent Representative of Ireland grievances and tensions can explode, complicating to the United Nations addressed to the efforts to prevent conflict and sustain peace. Secretary-General (S/2021/782) In Somalia, more frequent and more intense The President: In accordance with rule 39 of droughts and floods are undermining food security, the Council’s provisional rules of procedure, I invite increasing competition over scarce resources and Ms. Ilwad Elman, Chief Operating Officer of the Elman exacerbating existing community tensions, from which Peace and Human Rights Centre, to participate in this Al-Shabaab benefit. meeting. In the Middle East and North Africa, which The Security Council will now begin its are among the world’s most water-stressed and consideration of the item on its agenda. climate-vulnerable regions, a major decline in I wish to draw the attention of Council members precipitation and the increase in extreme weather to document S/2021/782, which contains the text of events are harming water and food security. a letter dated 9 September 2021 from the Permanent Last year more than 30 million people were Representative of Ireland to the United Nations displaced by climate-related disasters. Ninety per cent addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting a of refugees come from countries that are among the concept note on the item under consideration. most vulnerable and least able to adapt to the effects I wish to warmly welcome the Secretary-General of climate change. Many of those refugees are in turn and the distinguished Presidents, Deputy Prime hosted by countries that are also suffering the impacts Minister, Ministers and other high-level representatives. of climate change, compounding the challenge for host Their presence today underscores the importance of the communities and national budgets. subject matter under discussion. As the devastation caused by the coronavirus I now give the floor to His Excellency Secretarydisease pandemic continues to cause immense General António Guterres. suffering, it is undermining Governments’ ability to The Secretary-General: I thank the Irish respond to climate disasters and build resilience. presidency for organizing this timely open debate. The threats are clear and present. But it is not too Last month, the Intergovernmental Panel on late to act to ensure that climate action contributes to Climate Change released a deeply alarming report. international peace and security. Let me highlight three It shows that climate disruption caused by human absolute priorities on climate action. activities is widespread and intensifying. The report is First, we need unambiguous commitment and indeed a “code red” for humankind. credible actions by all countries to limit global Much bolder climate action is needed ahead of the warming to 1.5°C in order to avert the most catastrophic twenty-sixth Conference of the States Parties to the impacts of climate change. I urge all Member States United Nations Framework Convention on Climate to show more ambition in their nationally determined Change (COP 26), with Group of Twenty nations in the contributions by the holding of COP 26 and to translate lead, to maintain international peace and security. Our their commitments into concrete and immediate window of opportunity to prevent the worst climate action. Collectively, we need a 45 per cent cut in global impacts is rapidly closing. No region is immune. emissions by 2030. 2/21 21-26297 23/09/2021 Maintenance of international peace and security S/PV. 8864 Secondly, to deal with the already dire impacts (spoke in French) of climate disruption on the lives and livelihoods of The United Nations takes climate risks into people all over the world, we need a breakthrough on account in its political analyses as well as in its adaptation and resilience. It is essential that at least conflict-prevention and peacebuilding initiatives. The 50 per cent of climate financing globally be committed Climate Security Mechanism helps missions on the to building resilience and supporting adaptation. That ground, United Nations country teams and regional need is urgent, as global climate impacts remind us and subregional organizations analyse and address the daily. Annual adaptation costs in developing countries risks that climate change has on security and to shape are estimated at $70 billion and are expected to reach swift and integrated responses. That work encompasses up to $300 billion a year by 2030. Huge gaps remain countries and regions where the Security Council in adaptation financing for developing countries. We has acknowledged that climate and ecological change simply cannot achieve our shared climate goals, or undermine stability. achieve hope for lasting peace and security, if resilience The United Nations Office for West Africa and the and adaptation continue to be the forgotten half of the Sahel, in coordination for the International Organization climate equation. That neglect is seriously endangering for Migration (IOM), the United Nations Environment our collective efforts on the crucial road to COP 26 Programme and the Framework Convention on Climate in November. Developed countries must uphold their Change, has launched a new initiative on peace, climate promise, before COP 26, to deliver $100 billion in climate change and environmental degradation. The initiative financing annually to the developing world. They must will help the Economic Community of West African ensure that it reaches the most affected populations. The States and other regional, governmental, national and quality of that financing is also key. Grant financing local bodies to harmonize their efforts aimed and is essential, as loans will add to already crushing debt reducing the risks of climate change on security in the burdens in the most climate-vulnerable countries. subregion. Thirdly, climate adaptation and peacebuilding Ninety-five per cent of the population in South can — and should — reinforce one another. For example, Sudan lives on herding and agriculture, and they are in the Lake Chad region, dialogue platforms for therefore affected by unseasonable droughts and cooperatively managing natural resources, supported flooding. The United Nations Mission in South Sudan by the Peacebuilding Fund, have promoted reforestation works with the Food and Agriculture Organization of and improved access to sustain livelihoods. In West the United Nations and IOM to facilitate the peaceful and Central Africa, cross-border projects have enabled settlement of disputes between farmers and herders. dialogue and promoted more transparent management We are also aware of our responsibility to decrease of scarce natural resources — a factor of peace. As the United Nations carbon footprint. Eighty per cent of climate change is impacting water resources worldwide, Secretariat carbon emissions come from our six largest we must leverage water for peace, drawing lessons peacekeeping operations. Guided by the United Nations from the past. For example, in the Sava River basin, Environmental Strategy for Peace Operations, we are in Eastern Europe, transboundary water cooperation working on new approaches to shift energy supply was the starting point of regional reconciliation and to renewable energy producers, with the intention cooperation after the deadly war in the Balkans in the of supporting renewable energy capacity, including 1990s. beyond the lifetime of our missions. Across all those efforts, women are critical agents of We are all part of the solution. Let us all work change. The Security Council has long recognized and together to mitigate and adapt to climate disruption to sought to strengthen women’s role in sustaining peace. build peaceful and resilient societies. Women and girls face severe risks from both climate The President: I thank the Secretary-General for change and conflict. Their meaningful participation his briefing. and leadership bring about more sustainable results that benefit more people. I now give the floor to Ms. Elman. 21-262973/21 S/PV.8864 Maintenance of international peace and security 23/09/2021 Ms. Elman: I thank the Security Council for the Those are just some of the areas of our institutional opportunity to address it today at this open debate on focus, but we are not scientists or academics. We are the maintenance of international peace and security. peacebuilding practitioners on the front lines of a 30-year conflict that remains volatile to this day. We began We are in a planetary emergency that will make working on climate change issues because our lives and the task of maintaining peace and security even harder daily realities are at the nexus of climate change and in the coming decade and beyond. As climate change security. We realized that our peacebuilding goals and and other environmental crises gather pace, they are our mediation efforts could not succeed or be sustained touching every aspect of life. World international peace unless we addressed the broader environmental issues and security is no exception. related to security — whether it be the locustand The Security Council has held several thematic draught-induced scarcity of resources that multiplies debates on climate and security, and many of the the threat of intraclan conflict, the decrease of tuna Council members assembled here today have displayed swarms that drives Somali fishing communities support for the Council’s engagement on climate and towards piracy, or the flooding that continues to drive security. That is welcome progress, although it is still regional displacement and vulnerable people to violent too painfully slow for the vulnerable communities at extremist groups. the front lines of these issues, which are confronted The impacts of climate change and environmental with the realities of climate-related security risks every degradation are also changing what it takes to day and are fighting for survival. build peace for local peacebuilders. Because we are For front-line activists at the cusp of climate and experiencing climate related shocks and stresses so security, there is little support available to effectively often in our environments, our peacebuilding and assist them in furthering climate resilience on local security strategies now need to be more resilient to and regional levels. The toolkits, recommendations environmental change. Peacebuilding practitioners and research that are being produced primarily target and civil society organizations must be empowered to Governments, United Nations peacekeeping missions respond to their changing environments. They need to and, at times, large international non-governmental be able to access technical and financial resources, as organizations, with very few investments being made well as educational materials, that are fit for purpose. into the technical capacity-building and knowledge Risk-assessment information should be made available management of grass-roots civil society organizations. to them. The discourse around climate change and security The Security Council and the wider United Nations still fails to adequately meet the needs of affected system must be receptive to bottom-up solutions and communities, or to represent the voices of those who community-led processes. In a space where so much to are disproportionately affected by climate-related learn and unearth remains, policymakers must create security risks. the right conditions for durable, locally based solutions I work in Somalia, where I serve as one of the to emerge and succeed. I know first-hand how motivated directors of the Elman Peace Centre, a peacebuilding peace activists are to partner with the Security Council organization founded in Mogadishu in the early 1990s to integrate climate-related security risks into local and established in response to the armed conflict. We peacebuilding programming and strategies. However, work on preventing and countering violent extremism. the Council needs to ensure there is a genuine effort to We facilitate the disarmament, rehabilitation and co-create policy and peace processes with the people reintegration of youth and adults associated with affected. Mandating and deploying more environmental security advisers can assist in forging such cooperation different armed groups, including defectors from opportunities for learning and coordination. designated terrorist organizations. We contribute to security sector reform and advocate for more inclusive Armed conflict, hunger, poverty, inequality, peace processes that support women and youth to migration, violations of human rights and pandemics participate meaningfully in the processes that ensure all affect one another in ways that make peacebuilding their well-being. And we founded the first rape crisis more complex. We need to stop putting them at a centre in Somalia, where we are working to end sexual distance and stop thinking that they are this or that violence in conflict, exploitation and abuse. agency’s business, not ours. I am proud to sit on the 4/21 21-26297 23/09/2021 Maintenance of international peace and security S/PV. 8864 panel of an initiative called the Environment of seen how climate change is already contributing to Peace, which is looking at how the different security conflict in many parts of the world. Indeed, the Council challenges that I am describing in my briefing combine has already acknowledged that by addressing the and interact. The Environment of Peace explores how adverse effects of climate change in the mandates of environmental deterioration exacerbates insecurity and, many peacekeeping operations. on the positive side, how environmental sustainability From the Sahel to Iraq, the Council has recognized can support peace. that climate change is one of the factors driving conflict The Environment of Peace will launch a report in and fragility. Around Lake Chad, the combination of May 2022, in the run-up to the fiftieth anniversary to the conflict and the impact of climate change have led to United Nations Conference on the Human Environment, violence among communities. In the Horn of Africa, also known as the Stockholm Conference. The report repeated droughts are undermining coping capacities will not only reveal security challenges linked to among communities and disrupting livelihoods. Armed environmental change; it will also look at the risks and groups have been able to exploit those precarious opportunities for peace that arise from the transition to conditions for recruitment purposes. a greener and more sustainable future. It will also show how global cooperation and collective action can help The need for action is clear; 80 per cent of United address the enormous challenges that we are facing Nations peacekeepers are deployed in countries that are the most exposed to climate change. Our The momentum that currently exists for the climate peacekeepers and civilian staff are already dealing and security agenda is undeniable. Now is the time with climate-related security risks in their activities. If for policymakers to turn this ambitious agenda into they are to be effective and deliver on the mandates that coherent policies that guide the future of peacebuilding. the Council has given to them, we must also give them The President: I thank Ms. Elman for her briefing. the necessary support and tools to operate in those challenging environments. I shall now make a statement in my capacity as the Taoiseach of Ireland. The instability that is being driven by the adverse effects of climate change is being felt across the Let me begin by expressing my thanks to the globe — in Europe, Africa, Latin America and the Secretary-General for his leadership on climate Caribbean, the Middle East, South Asia and many of change and his important briefing this morning. I the world’s small island developing States. The link also thank Ms. Ilwad Elman for her testimony today between climate and instability has been recognized and her contribution to ensuring that the international by the African Union, the European Union and the community can understand better the insecurities that Pacific Islands Forum. Sea-level rise, displacement climate change is creating in vulnerable communities. and competition over resources are contributing to Climate change is the defining challenge of our tensions. Today’s briefings gave us a clear message. generation. The recent report of the Intergovernmental If the Security Council is to meet its responsibility Panel on Climate Change laid out in stark terms what to maintain international peace and security, it must is happening to our planet and what the future may have the information and tools to analyse and address hold should we fail to act. It is essential that we act climate-related security risks. now to prevent further warming by reaching net-zero The Council’s Informal Expert Group on Climate emissions as quickly as possible, and we must redouble and Security has convened since 2020 to support the our efforts to ensure a successful outcome at the twentyCouncil’s work on climate and security. Ireland is sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations proud to serve, together with the Niger, as co-Chair Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held of the Group. The Group provides a platform for in Glasgow later this year. members of the Security Council to hear how we can A concerted multilateral response to climate integrate climate-related security risks into our conflict change involving all the organs of the United Nations prevention, peacekeeping, conflict resolution and postis urgently needed. That response must include the conflict stabilization work. The Group provides data Security Council. The impact of climate change is and evidence to inform future action by the Council. global, and our collective security is at risk. We have Ireland is also an active member of the wider Group 21-262975/21 S/PV.8864 Maintenance of international peace and security 23/09/2021 of Friends on Climate and Security, which now has a particularly urgent and important in the context of membership of almost 60 countries from around the climate security. world. That further illustrates the priority placed on the I thank the Secretary-General and the briefer for issue by the United Nations membership. their insights and recommendations. The mandate of the Council is to consider threats Climate change represents the greatest global to international peace and security. We must move challenge of our time and shapes the future of past theoretical debates and respond to the reality humankind. The devastating impacts of climate change that climate change is exacerbating conflict globally. remain evident on every continent. Sea-level rise The Council can — and must — do more. It has the threatens to submerge Pacific island States. Severe mandate, and it has the tools. The failure to use them droughts persist in West Africa and the Horn of Africa. is an abdication of our responsibility. I know that there Flooding and natural disasters are predominant in are differing perspectives around this table, but I also South-East Asia. I must also mention the degradation believe the time has come for the Council to work of biodiversity in South America and the abnormal together to identify how we can most appropriately melting of Antarctic ice caps. integrate climate-related security risks into the work we do to prevent conflict and build peace. Climate change takes up valuable resources meant for socioeconomic development and exacerbates We must better understand the interplay between poverty, unemployment and social inequality. We are climate change, and the country and regional situations also witnessing how climate change ignites disputes on the Council’s agenda. In order to help us do so, over natural resources between populations. It we should invite the Secretary-General to submit a displaces tens of millions from their homes in search periodic report to the Security Council on how climate of new livelihoods and triggers transborder security change is threatening the maintenance of international threats related to ecology, the environment, food and peace and security. The appointment by the Secretarywater resources. General of a special representative for climate-related security risks could also build awareness and promote Those consequences may well erupt into geopolitical greater coherence. Such actions are just the beginning tension and instability, thereby jeopardizing the peace, of what is necessary for the Council to begin to fulfil security, development and prosperity of States and its obligations. nations. It is truly a “code red” — a war without gunfire, we might say — that causes economic damage and loss To take those proposals forward, Ireland will of life, no less dire than actual wars and conflicts. convene discussions on a thematic draft resolution on climate and security in the coming days. I ask today Against that backdrop, I wish to share with the that all members of the Council engage constructively Council three points on which I believe we should act on that draft resolution. with urgency. People affected by climate change-driven conflict First, the Security Council must uphold its depend on the Council for leadership. The international leading role in establishing mechanisms for assessing, community looks to us for guidance. By working forecasting and warning on climate security risks at an together in a spirit of common purpose, I hope that we early stage and while they are still distant. That will help can reach a shared understanding of how the Security us be proactive in outlining effective response strategies Council can meet that challenge. Now is the moment for and measures. Conflict prevention, peacekeeping the Council to act. I look forward to hearing from all missions, humanitarian assistance and post-conflict members today. reconstruction efforts under the auspices of the Security Council must include climate security in a proper I now resume my functions as President of manner. In that connection, I wish to propose that the the Council. United Nations establish a comprehensive database I call on the President of Viet Nam. system on the multidimensional impacts of sea-level rise, in support of global response policy formulation. President Phuc (spoke in Vietnamese; English interpretation provided by the delegation): Today’s Secondly, people’s interests, especially those of meeting, presided over by you, Mr. President, is vulnerable groups, need to take centre stage if we are 6/21 21-26297 23/09/2021 Maintenance of international peace and security S/PV. 8864 to harmoniously address the security, development and will take bolder action towards a greener and more humanitarianism nexus. Viet Nam strongly supports sustainable future. the full implementation of resolutions 2532 (2020) and The President: I now call on the President of 2573 (2021) to achieve a global ceasefire as soon as Estonia. possible and protect civilians and critical infrastructure in areas of armed conflict. President Kaljulaid: I thank the delegation of Ireland for convening today’s meeting. I also thank the Thirdly, we need to continue to safeguard the Secretary-General for his remarks and leadership. sovereignty, key role and resilience of nations in climate change mitigation and adaptation efforts. I would like to make four points. We must maintain We also need to step up international cooperation to the same collective sense of urgency to stop climate supplement and coordinate resources to effectively change that we demonstrate to fight the pandemic. We realize the Sustainable Development Goals, outlined must also collectively seek solutions to stop climate in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the change as efficiently as we developed the vaccines by Paris Agreement on Climate Change and other key investing considerable resources and working with our international treaties. capable private sector. We must do better at allocating resources to save our planet. We must also develop and We must resolve to cut greenhouse-gas emissions, maintain a scientific database approach to resolving the on which developed countries should take the lead. problem. Let me now elaborate on those points. Ample resources should also be set aside to provide developing countries with assistance in financing, A little more than a month ago, the Intergovernmental technologies and know-how, so as to ensure that no Panel on Climate Change published its new report country is left behind in the common fight against highlighting that human influence is warming the climate change. planet faster that we had previously thought. We must not lose sight of those who are most vulnerable to Viet Nam is one of the countries hardest hit by climate change. Many of them do not have the capacity climate change. Successive natural disasters have led to cope with climate-related security risks and will to considerable loss of life and property. The Mekong need considerable assistance and support from the Delta, the heart of Viet Nam’s agricultural production, international community. For that reason, Estonia has is witnessing a record number of droughts and incidents allocated almost €9 million for the period from 2011 to of saline intrusion, which jeopardize the livelihoods 2020, and we are keen to continue our support. and everyday lives of more than 20 million people, as well as food security for the entire country and the The Security Council has the scope and tools to region as a whole. address climate-related security risks effectively and systematically. Although the Council has increased For that reason, to realize its aspirations and vision its engagement on those risks over the past few years, for national development and perform its duty to the much more can be done to fully integrate the knowledge international community, Viet Nam is determined of climate-related risks into all aspects of our work in and strongly committed to taking climate action and order to mainstream them. Indeed, the whole United to developing a green, sustainable and low-carbon Nations system should be better informed about economy, as pledged at the twenty-first Conference of security risks induced by climate change. the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention In that context, a systematic approach is urgently on Climate Change. needed. We need a Security Council resolution on Viet Nam supports all efforts by the Security climate and security — only in that way can we make Council, multilateral forums and other cooperation a difference. It is of the utmost importance that the arrangements at the bilateral and regional levels to Secretary-General receive a mandate to collect data respond to climate-related challenges. We hope to and coordinate policy to that end. Regular reporting continue to receive assistance — resources and policy that takes into account regional specifics would be a advice — from international friends so as to better major step towards developing tangible prevention fulfil our commitments. I am convinced that, through measures. Only a few United Nations peace operations international commitment and solidarity, all countries reflect climate and security risks in their mandates. It is 21-262977/21 S/PV.8864 Maintenance of international peace and security 23/09/2021 important to continue integrating climate-related risks is an exacerbating factor in conflicts and humanitarian in their activities. crises. As co-Chair of the Informal Expert Group on Climate and Security alongside Ireland, the Niger Of course, the direct and indirect security shares that conviction and considers the placement of implications of climate change are not the only the issue on the Council’s agenda to be timely in more climate-related security risks. Our own climate policies ways than one. can also pose risks. The green transition, as every other transition, involves a competitive element where some I would also like to thank Mr. António Guterres are obviously doing better than others. The knowledge, and Ms. Ilwad Elman for their briefings, which reflect tools and resources necessary for that transition are not their firm commitment to addressing the impacts of equally available to all of us. In order to avoid fuelling climate change on peace and security. marginalization and the propagation of fundamentalist As we move towards the end of the second views, we need to ensure that such a transition is just consecutive year characterized by the coronavirus and inclusive to collectively keep the global public with disease pandemic, we must not lose sight of the other us. The impacts of climate change do not recognize pandemic we face — one that will be even more national borders, and neither should our knowledge or devastating in the long term and for which no vaccine is best mitigation and adaptation practices. We must truly available. I am referring, of course, to climate change. collaborate for the common good. We are already seeing record heatwaves, droughts, But collaboration can rely only on trust. In severe fires and floods and melting glaciers. The order to build that trust, we need transparency, good conclusions of the 2021 report of the Intergovernmental communication and data-sharing. Data is critical for Panel on Climate Change depict a most alarming developing multilateralism. Without reliable, timely situation and constitute a call for action. While those and accessible data, we cannot be successful. To that risks are new to some, in the Niger and the Sahel end, Estonia has launched the Data for the Environment region they are our reality. Those risks bring with them Alliance, which will support the United Nations undeniable security and humanitarian consequences for Environment Programme in developing a global our populations and undermine the development efforts environmental data strategy by 2025. We hereby invite our countries are undertaking in a context complicated all countries to join that alliance. even further by the pandemic. The next two months will be of critical importance As we speak, in the Sahel, the crucible of that for climate action, as we are leading up to the twentyclimatic reality — where agriculture is the mainstay sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations of the economies, accounting on average for more Framework Convention on Climate Change in than a third of the gross domestic product, and where Glasgow. That will decide whether this decade will be more than 80 per cent of the population depends remembered as the one where we started to save the on agricultural activities and natural resources for planet, or the beginning of the end. their livelihoods — climate change has intensified The President: I now call on the Minister of State competition for land, fodder and water resources. That and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of the has led to the resurgence of community-level conflicts Republic of the Niger. between herders and farmers, thereby hampering peacebuilding and development efforts in the region. Mr. Massoudou (Niger) (spoke in French): At Numerous recent studies have shown that climate the outset, allow me to congratulate Ireland on its change and conflict dynamics create a feedback assumption of the presidency of the Security Council loop in the region, whereby climate change impacts for the month of September, as well as to commend the fuel additional pressures, while conflict undermines way in which it has led the work of this organ of the communities’ abilities to cope. United Nations. Faced with that scourge, our States have undertaken Your country’s commitment, Sir, to holding a various efforts, both at the continental level, with debate on the issue of security risks related to climate the African Union, and at the regional level, through change in the Council is proof of your conviction that the Permanent Inter-State Committee for Drought the fragility associated with environmental degradation Control in the Sahel, the Economic Community of 8/21 21-26297 23/09/2021 Maintenance of international peace and security S/PV. 8864 West African States and the Climate Commission for In conclusion, my delegation is in favour of the Sahel Region. The latter has adopted a climate adopting a Council draft resolution on the issue in investment plan for the period 2018 to 2030, with a order to properly acknowledge the security risks linked global cost of approximately $440 billion, which is to climate change as a central element of our peace and aimed at contributing to the global effort to mitigate security architecture. greenhouse-gas emissions and increase the adaptation The President: I now call on the Secretary of State and resilience capacities of the Sahelian populations. of the United States of America. Those efforts, however laudable, will remain in vain Mr. Blinken (United States of America): I would and will not produce the leverage effect that is essential like to thank Secretary-General Guterres for his to scale up climate action if we do not all move forward presence and his leadership on the climate issue. I also together. The lack of consensus on this crucial issue wish to thank you, Sir, for convening today’s discussion should in no way be an obstacle for the Council when and for putting the connection between climate and it comes to addressing it. Rather, the lack of consensus security on the Security Council’s agenda. Moreover, I should serve as a unique opportunity to hear all the thank Ireland and the Niger for the important work being different views that can contribute to our debates and carried out by the Informal Expert Group on Climate enable us to move forward on this important matter. and Security. I also want to applaud Ms. Elman’s At this stage, allow me to make a few suggestions very powerful testimony, which we were grateful to as to how the Council could address the issue. hear today. We need to build a holistic, coordinated approach. From day one, President Biden has made addressing In the context of United Nations and Security Council the climate crisis a top priority of our Administration, efforts, increased investment in efforts at prevention including by directing me and every one of our and anticipating effects in fragile States could limit the diplomats to ensure that it is a core element of United compounded humanitarian consequences of climate States foreign policy. We are taking into account how change and armed conflict. In that regard, we call for every bilateral and multilateral engagement we have the strengthening of the Council’s capacity to better and how every policy decision we make will impact understand the impact of climate change on security our goal to put the world on a safer, more sustainable through a report of the Secretary-General that includes path. That is not only because of the devastating and, an in-depth analysis of current and future risks, as well in some instances, irreversible implications of climate as action-oriented recommendations. change for our majestic planet. It is also because of the cascading effects on virtually every aspect of our lives, We also call for the systematic consideration of from agricultural to infrastructure and from public climate-related risks in resolutions on countryand health to food security. We have heard some of those region-specific situations, which could increase the effects described already. effectiveness of peacebuilding and peacekeeping efforts. In that connection, we encourage the Security Right here in New York City, where we are gathered Council to rely as much as possible on the advisory today, earlier this month, a punishing storm caused by role of the Peacebuilding Commission, as well as on the remnants of Hurricane Ida killed dozens of people, the Informal Expert Group co-chaired by the Niger including a 2-year-old boy, and inflicted tens of billions and Ireland. of dollars in damage. More than three inches of rain fell in Central Park in a single hour, breaking a record set Those frameworks, as well as the data provided to only a few weeks earlier. If we look at any one of our us by research centres, will allow us to gain perspective countries, we will see record-breaking extreme weather on national and regional processes, which are tools to events like this. The climate crisis is not coming; it is better inform the Security Council on the implications already here. of climate change on peace and security. In addition, we consider the appointment of a special envoy of the And clear patterns are emerging in its impacts. Secretary-General on climate and security to be most The consequences are falling disproportionately on pertinent, insofar as it will give greater visibility and vulnerable and low-income populations, and there are effectiveness to the consideration of this issue, which worsening conditions in human suffering in places no one can ignore. already afflicted by conflict, high levels of violence 21-262979/21 S/PV.8864 Maintenance of international peace and security 23/09/2021 and instability. These mounting impacts, together with decision of the United Nations Department of Political the synthesis report of the Framework Convention and Peacebuilding Affairs to include climate security on Climate Change released last week and the in the strategic plan in 2020 for the first time and the comprehensive report of the Intergovernmental Panel creation of the climate security mechanism are very on Climate Change released last month, underscore the positive examples of just this. To any who doubt the urgent need to dramatically cut our emissions and build merits of these steps, I just encourage them to ask some our resilience for the inevitable changes to come. of the United Nations force commanders, the special envoys, the negotiators, the peacebuilders and others One way to do that is by helping others to do their who are out there grappling with the impacts of climate part. Back in April, President Biden announced that in their everyday efforts. They are hungry for many the United States would double our public international more tools like these. financing for developing countries most affected by the climate crisis. Earlier this week, here at the United I focused today on the threats posed by the Nations, he announced that we will work with the climate crisis. But let me just say, in closing it would United States Congress to double that number again (see be a mistake to view this only through that lens. We A/76/PV.3). We urge other Governments, particularly agree that to prevent cataclysmic consequences, all those that, like the United States, are the biggest our nations must take immediate, bold actions to build emitters, to step up in making these investments. resilience to adapt to the unavoidable impacts and move swiftly to a net-zero world. That is our shared charge The Security Council also has a vital role to play in for the twenty-sixth session of the Conference of the three ways, which I would like to briefly suggest. Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention First, we have to stop debating whether the climate on Climate Change, which is now only weeks away, crisis is a subject that belongs in the Security Council and, if we are to keep within reach the goal of limiting and instead ask how the Council can leverage its unique global warming to 1°5C, every nation will need to bring powers to tackle the negative impacts of climate on its highest possible ambitions to the table. peace and security. That is an argument that should But these efforts and the investments they will have been settled a long time ago. If we look at almost require from all of us also present an unprecedented any place where we see threats to international peace opportunity to expand access to affordable, clean and security today, we find that climate change is energy, build green infrastructure and create wellmaking things less peaceful and less secure, making paying jobs, all of which could spur long-term economic it even more difficult to respond. That is the story of growth, reverse growing inequities within and between Syria, Mali, Yemen, South Sudan, Ethiopia and many our nations, and improve the lives of people around other places beset by strife. By agreeing that the issue the world. belongs here in the Security Council, we will also send a clear message to the international community of the Even as we are clear-eyed about the threat, let serious implications that climate change has for our us not lose sight of this once-in-a-generation global collective security. opportunity. Let us be driven not only by the fear of all the damage the climate crisis can inflict and already Secondly, United Nations field missions should has inflicted, but also by the imagination of all the consistently incorporate the effects of climate change ways our response can actually make people’s lives into their planning and implementation, as was done better now and into the future. in the mandates for, inter alia, the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq, the United Nations The President: I now call on the Minister for Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Europe and Foreign Affairs of France. Mali and the United Nations Office for West Africa and Mr. Le Drian (France) (spoke in French): Climate the Sahel. Doing that will advance mission activities, change is causing a chain of disruptions in the life of our foster stability and build resilience. societies and on the international scene. In recent years, Thirdly, the United Nations system should further droughts, floods, storms, tropical cyclones and extreme integrate climate-related analysis into its conflicttemperatures have directly caused nearly 2 million mediation and conflict-prevention efforts, particularly deaths, to say nothing of the human tragedies linked to in fragile States and areas of active conflict. The the conflicts sometimes precipitated by these disasters. 10/21 21-26297 23/09/2021 Maintenance of international peace and security S/PV. 8864 Climate change is increasingly becoming a ourselves the means to strengthen the resilience of multiplier of crises and security risks. Entire regions States and populations. Today, of the 20 countries most are at risk of falling into instability and violence. affected by conflicts in the world, 12 are also among Food insecurity, destruction of habitats, depletion of the most vulnerable to climate change. resources, forced migrations, exacerbation of tensions Where there are serious security threats, we need between communities — for example, between to build a virtuous cycle of development and climate sedentary farmers and nomadic herders — are the action. An example of this is the Great Green Wall consequences of climate change. project in the Sahel, which is a flagship programme The fight for the climate, far from being only to combat climate change and desertification, which environmental, is therefore also a fight for peace and is helping to combat insecurity. The fact that there security. It is a geopolitical issue, which is why the was real engagement shown at the recent One Planet Security Council is fulfilling its proper role when it Summit in Paris on this subject — in the form of looks at the new threats linked to climate change with a pledges of $18 billion — is a sign that we can act to view to anticipating and trying to deal with them. combine development and action for the climate. I would therefore like to thank Prime Minister Thirdly, we must work to better take into account Micheál Martin and Secretary-General António the security dimension of climate and environmental Guterres for having taken the initiative to hold today’s issues. In February, President Macron made some very debate. I would like to make France’s contribution to concrete proposals to this end: that the Secretarythe discussion by sharing three convictions with the General prepare a biannual report for the Security Council. I believe these convictions are widely shared. Council on the consequences of climate change for The first is that we must strive to foresee and international peace and security; that recommendations deal with the consequences of climate tragedies, and be made for targeted action in high-risk areas; and that in this respect we must first help our most vulnerable a special envoy for climate security be appointed to lead partners anticipate the risks linked to these disruptions, the international community’s action and engagement for example, by improving the mapping of people on this issue. vulnerable to risks, in order to design emergency plans The threats of our century are not simply that include pre-established funding; by maintaining accumulating; the fact is that they are interlinked and are our efforts in the area of early warning through such likely to exacerbate one another. Everyone understands initiatives as the Climate Risk and Early Warning that the cost of inaction would be immense. Therefore, Systems initiative, in order to improve prevention and in conclusion, I would like to express my hope that our information for populations and States on the risks of discussions in the Security Council will also help to dangerous climatic events; and by strengthening our aid convince everyone of the need to commit to making the to the victims of climatic disasters with the emergency twenty-sixth session of the Conference of the Parties to humanitarian aid they need. I am thinking in particular the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate of the aftermath of Cyclone Winston in 2016, where Change a success by making commitments to reduce there was real European — and French — engagement greenhouse-gas emissions that are commensurate with in the Indo-Pacific, reaching the most remote places of the challenges facing our planet. Member States can the Fiji archipelago to help the populations and thereby count on France’s full mobilization in that regard. contributing to the stability of this region. The President: I now call on the Minister for Secondly, we must prevent violent and terrorist Foreign Affairs of Mexico. groups from taking advantage of the confusion and distress generated by the effects of climate change in Mr. Casaubón (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): I thank areas already fraught with tension and fragility. To Ireland for convening this open debate on a central achieve this, we cannot rely solely on the commitment topic on the current international agenda. I am also of our armed forces and the Blue Helmets deployed in grateful for the briefings by the Secretary-General and peacekeeping operations. As the Secretary-General has Ms. Ilwad Elman. I recognize the presence of Heads reminded us, they are already active in this way, showing of State and Government, Foreign Ministers and other great engagement and dedication, but we must also give high-level officials. 21-2629711/21 S/PV.8864 Maintenance of international peace and security 23/09/2021 Since last year, with the beginning of the that has serious security implications, and the role coronavirus disease pandemic, it has become clear of the Council is crucial if we are to strengthen the that threats to international peace and security are multilateral architecture. It is therefore important genuinely multidimensional. One that is increasingly to rigorously analyse the main risks and the specific relevant is climate change, which poses a threat to the settings in which they exist. The challenge lies in the survival of humankind. It is undeniable today that its timely identification of situations and areas in which effects can exacerbate, and are exacerbating, existing the effects of climate change may have multiplier conflicts, as can be seen in regions such as the Sahel effects that affect international peace and security and the Horn of Africa and are having severe impacts and in acting in a timely manner, while maintaining a on many countries. preventive diplomacy of common commitment. The 2021 report of the Intergovernmental Panel on More effective interaction between the Security Climate Change, which was just issued on 9 August Council and the Framework Convention on Climate and has 234 authors and thousands of scientific Change and the United Nations Environment references, is compelling: the scientific evidence shows Programme, and the integration of their respective unprecedented changes under way in the climate and views into the analyses of the Department of Political global temperature and, unfortunately, some of those and Peacebuilding Affairs, would substantially enrich changes are already irreversible. Projections for the the content of the five-yearly report and the strategic future show significant changes in heatwaves, intense vision to be adopted. precipitation, droughts and cyclones, among others, The establishment of the Informal Expert Group on with serious consequences for human activity. The Climate and Security within the Security Council was report concludes that the sustainability of natural a step in the right direction. We now need to translate resources and the well-being of our peoples are at risk. its recommendations into action. Therefore, when It also states, after a very careful assessment, that the the mandates of peacekeeping operations and special commitment to invest and finance up to $100 billion for political missions are adjusted, the impact of climate projects that could have curbed the trend in the report effects will be adequately taken into account and a is not being fulfilled. This is to say that no one can now timely and comprehensive response can be provided. reasonably question the fact that climate change is a threat to everyone’s security. What the report says is Another proposal that we could make would be to that we are not doing much, and we are not achieving include a follow-up on the goals that we propose and how the goals we set for ourselves. the financing that has been or will be made available at the twenty-sixth session of the Conference of the The Peacebuilding Commission itself has stated Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention that 11 of the countries that it monitors where there on Climate Change (COP26) will be fulfilled, to make are conflicts are located in areas that are particularly financing a central issue for the climate security of the exposed to the effects of climate change, which further planet and avoid there being just political statements complicates efforts to achieve sustainable peace. made at the Conference. The only way we can address climate change is I conclude by reaffirming Mexico’s commitment to through multilateralism, with a comprehensive and combat climate change together with all stakeholders coherent approach across the entire United Nations to find global and multidimensional solutions to the system. We agree with the notion reflected in the issue. I reiterate that we must all work to make COP26 Secretary-General’s “Our Common Agenda” initiative a success. We must expand our goals and respond to the on the need to be better prepared for those challenges, report I just mentioned. which implies considering the effects of climate change in any possible scenario — what is being called “shortThe President: I now call on the Minister for term climate security”. Hence the proposal for a report Foreign Affairs of Norway. every five years on strategic vision and global risk is Ms. Søreide (Norway): I would like to thank very welcome. Ireland for placing climate and security on today’s It is good that the Security Council is not ignoring agenda. And I greatly appreciate the briefings by the the issue. How could we justify that? It is an issue Secretary-General and Ms. Ilwad Elman. 12/21 21-26297 23/09/2021 Maintenance of international peace and security S/PV. 8864 The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change It is a matter of conflict prevention. It is a matter of has issued a very clear warning. We can expect further addressing climate risk and resilience as part of our widespread and unprecedented changes to our climate. common responsibility to maintain international peace The impacts of that can already be seen in many of the and security. situations on the agenda of the Security Council. We therefore urge the Secretary-General to More and more of our development aid is now include climate-related security risks in his reports to channelled to climate financing and investment in the Council and for climate risks to be included as a renewable energy in developing countries, and we are consideration in all relevant mandates of United Nations tripling our support for adaptation and disaster risk peacekeeping and special political missions. We have reduction. The reason for that is that half of the 20 to strengthen coordination and ensure a coherent countries that are considered the most vulnerable to and whole-of-United Nations response. The Climate climate change are also affected by armed conflict. Security Mechanism and the Informal Expert Group on Climate and Security will be important platforms Climate change, conflict, displacement and hunger in that regard. exacerbate one other. Climate change is a threat multiplier. And that is the reason that climate and Norway strongly believes that climate risks security are at the very core of the Security Council. must also be addressed in mediation and preventive diplomacy. The shared experience of climate change The impacts of climate change vary from region can be an entry point for building trust and dialogue to region. In Afghanistan, long-standing conflict across communities, as we have seen in Somalia and has weakened community resilience and traditional South Sudan. natural resource management — eroding the capacity of Afghan society to deal with climate-related security Yet, sustainable peace and development cannot risks. In Iraq, water scarcity worsened by climate be achieved without the inclusion of all relevant change deepens grievances and conflict. It escalates stakeholders. In order to succeed, strong local and the risk of violent conflict and provides entry points for regional partnerships is needed, as is the meaningful armed groups to exploit. In South Sudan, floods and participation of civil society. droughts disrupt livelihoods and worsen food security, Moreover, the Security Council needs reliable, and livestock losses compound rivalries, which can relevant, timely and actionable information on the trigger intercommunal conflicts, displacement and climate risks for the specific situations on the Council’s the growth of armed groups. Across the Sahel, climate agenda. In that respect, Norway gives financial change may increase the risk of clashes between herders support to the independent research undertaken by and farmers over access to water and pastures. the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs, the The impact of climate change often hits women Stockholm International Peace Research Institute and and girls the hardest. According to UNICEF, 1 billion Adelphi, in close cooperation with local expertise. children live in extremely high-risk countries. That is Climate change is the defining challenge of our nearly half of all the children in the world. And women time. The Security Council must show leadership and are on the front lines addressing resource scarcity fulfil its responsibility as set forth in its mandate. and mobilizing for climate action and peacebuilding. Climate and security is one of four main priorities We must support their efforts and leadership to for Norway in the Council, and we stand ready to do enhance sustainability, stability and climate resilience our part. in communities. The President: I now call on the Cabinet Secretary The Security Council has expressed its concern that for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kenya. the adverse effects of climate change may constitute a risk to international peace and security. What is needed Ms. Omamo (Kenya): I congratulate you, now is a more systematic approach by the Council. Mr. President, on Ireland’s stewardship of the Security As a concrete step forward, the Council should adopt Council this month and thank you for personally a thematic resolution on climate and security in order presiding over the Council’s open debate on the to guide its work. The intention is not for the Council subject at hand. I also thank the Secretary-General and to take on the tasks of other United Nations organs. Ms. Ilwad Elman for their insightful briefings. 21-2629713/21 S/PV.8864 Maintenance of international peace and security 23/09/2021 Climate change is leading to profound effects Fourthly, the highest priority must be given to globally with respect to extreme weather conditions, climate action not compromising the ability of countries migration, resource competition, and on the livelihoods to develop rapidly. Climate action must be fair and must and economies of millions of people across the world. be seen to be fair for it to draw the support of the vast These are combining to increase the fragility of States, majority of States. After all, we all understand that the are propagating resource conflicts and are escalating bulk of resources for climate adaptation will need to existing violent confrontations. This is particularly the be drawn from domestic resources. That means that case in the Sahel, the Horn of Africa, the Middle East countries will need to have access to revenues from and small island developing States. growing economies if they are to respond adequately in a fashion that protects peace and security. As we prepare to undertake the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Fifthly, we need the development of early warning Framework Convention on Climate Change in a few systems that map climate change hotspots in order to short weeks, we should keep in mind that climate-change enable decision-making tools that prevent and minimize adaptation will need to deliver on conflict prevention conflict at the national, regional and international levels. and resolution. It will call for the commitments made to Finally, peacekeeping and peacebuilding missions, the regions that have not caused climate change but are especially those situated in Africa, must have clear experiencing its adverse effects to be implemented in a climate-action mandates, including environmental conflict-sensitive fashion. protection and restoration. This is particularly Given its primary responsibility for maintaining important in the sprawling refugee camps in Africa, international peace and security, the Council should where environmental degradation is the order of the day. also take a pragmatic approach to dealing with climate These peacekeeping missions must also have the ability change, particularly in conflict situations. I will to collect data, particularly gender-disaggregated underscore six measures that Kenya considers pivotal data, for us to understand the nexus between gender, in that regard: climate change and conflict. Our peacekeepers must also have the ability to mobilize for emergencies in First, the growing body of evidence on the order to respond quickly to communities in the face climate-security nexus must be developed with of calamities. experts, States and institutions in the Global South, where the challenge is most keenly felt. This research As I conclude, Kenya commends Ireland and the agenda must be inclusive to enable emerging policy Niger, the co-chairs of the Informal Expert Group on recommendations to be widely embraced. Climate and Security, for their efforts towards a thematic resolution. Kenya will continue to be an anchor in the Secondly, the definitive research on this nexus will articulation of global environmental issues. In that need to benefit from the science-policy interface that is regard, we will remain a strong and consistent voice anchored in the work of the United Nations Environment for Africa, the Global South, including small island Programme (UNEP), domiciled in Nairobi. As UNEP developing States, in the pursuit of representative prepares to celebrate its fiftieth birthday, its place at the climate and security solutions. centre of environment multilateralism must be restored and strengthened if the battle against climate change, The President: I now call on the Minister for particularly in the South, is to be won. Foreign Affairs, Migration and Tunisians Abroad of Tunisia. Thirdly, technologies and practices that have been employed over long periods of time by millions of Mr. Jerandi (Tunisia) (spoke in Arabic): At the people are often not only resilient, but also more fit for outset. I would like to express my sincere thanks to purpose. We therefore need to build on local knowledge you, Mr. President, and to the Republic of Ireland for and practices that are proven to work, especially in dedicating today’s meeting to discuss, once again, enhancing resilience of communities against climate climate change and its impact on international, peace change effects. It is this indigenous knowledge, often of and security. I would like also to thank the Secretarywomen, that can form the basis of peace and mediation General for his valuable briefing and to express to him efforts with respect to the conflicts that are continuing our appreciation for his continued efforts and support to accumulate across our world. for his priorities in addressing the impact of climate 14/21 21-26297 23/09/2021 Maintenance of international peace and security S/PV. 8864 change. My thanks also go to Ms. Elman for her and the South but to varying degrees, depending on the valuable briefing. extent to which each country has contributed to climate change. We hope in this regard that all countries Threats to international, peace and security are no concerned will show a genuine commitment to the longer limited to the conventional threats of geostrategic peoples and the planet at the twenty-sixth session of tensions, arms races and conflicts in several regions. the United Nations Conference on Climate Change, Our world today is confronted with many emerging which will be held in Glasgow from 31 October to challenges that target the necessities of life on our 12 November. Tunisia will make every effort, alongside planet and future generations. the international community, to reduce the existential Undoubtedly, climate change, along with threat of climate change to life on our planet by environmental disasters and health pandemics, such advancing our commitments to addressing it, which we as the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic and will announce at the Glasgow conference. natural disasters, which are becoming more frequent and severe, constitute the biggest challenges to our In conclusion, I reiterate my country’s commitment countries, individually and collectively. They are also a to collective action at the United Nations and other challenge to multilateralism, the United Nations system multilateral and bilateral forums to address these and international cooperation. emerging threats to international peace and security. We are determined to pursue our efforts to advance The attention that the Security Council pays to the Council’s work on this issue. Tunisia reiterates its these issues when discussing them as items on its support for the appointment of a special envoy of the agenda reflects its conviction in the need to integrate Secretary-General to follow up on this matter. We look these risks into the Council’s work. We can no longer forward to the Secretary-General’s report on the impact overlook the extent to which climate change exacerbates of climate change on international peace and security. elements of fragility and instability, while threatening We also look forward to a Council resolution in this food and water security for vulnerable groups. This regard. Tunisia supports such a resolution and will in turn raises tensions and prolongs many conflicts, engage with it. especially in the African continent, and leads to forced displacement and irregular migration, The President: I now call on the Minister of State for the Commonwealth and Development, the United Although climate change is a global phenomenon, Nations and South Asia of the United Kingdom of Great its impact is uneven. Certain regions of the world will Britain and Northern Ireland. be more affected than others, not only because they will be more exposed to the impact of climate change, but Lord Ahmad (United Kingdom): At the outset, because their peoples, especially the vulnerable groups, I should like to thank the Secretary-General and will be less capable of coping with climate shocks. Ms. Ilwad Elman for their very powerful and insightful Therefore, when dealing with security risks related contributions, which have really set the tone of today’s to climate change, there is a need to recognize the important debate. With the climate crisis posing an development aspect of any strategy pertaining to the existential threat, not just to our shared environment preservation of peace and security. In this context, there but to our common security, this debate is absolutely is a need also to strengthen international cooperation and critical. I therefore thank you, Taoiseach, and Ireland solidarity to achieve the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable for convening this very important debate in a very Development goals, including Goal 13, on taking urgent timely fashion. action to address climate change and impact. As we look around our world, the nations suffering Given its belief in the common destiny of all most from this crisis were already counted among the the people of our planet, Tunisia calls for serious world’s most fragile. A dozen of the most vulnerable consideration to be given to reprioritizing the objectives are already enduring the weight of armed conflict. of the United Nations development support system and Climate change acts as a cruel multiplier in such cases, reforming the international financial system to meet making bad situations much worse. With institutions the needs of developing countries and enable them to failing, communities displaced and societies insecure, mitigate and adapt to the effects of climate change. conflict-riven nations are ill equipped to cope with the This is the responsibility of all countries of the North impacts of climate change. 21-2629715/21 S/PV.8864 Maintenance of international peace and security 23/09/2021 It risks pushing fragile regions over the edge. It need to turn into urgent action from us all, irrespective threatens to displace millions of people. Cities, towns of who we are or where we are. and villages could be erased from the map. And, as We must act now if we are to stop temperature we have already heard, the consequences of climate increases breaching 1.5°C above pre-industrial change hit the most vulnerable people. They hit women levels. We must do that by bringing forward the netand girls particularly hard, from the risk of violence zero commitments, ambitious, nationally determined in camps for displaced people to the threat of child contributions and, most important, the policies and marriage when parents are plunged into poverty. And actions needed to deliver them. We must act. We must as we heard so powerfully from Ilwad Elman and as the act now to secure the financing to help vulnerable States Prime Minister’s Special Representative on Preventing adapt to our changing climate. The United Kingdom is Sexual Violence in Conflict, it was particularly poignant already demonstrating how that can be achieved. We to hear from her how we continue to see sexual violence welcome other recent announcements, including those tragically still used as a weapon of war, as a weapon from the United States this week. of conflict. Last year, we committed to cutting emissions The world is therefore looking to the Security by at least 68 per cent by 2030, the fastest rate of Council to act — and act swiftly. We welcome the reduction of any major economy. Our climate financing efforts in many areas that the United Nations, under commitments for the next five years stand at more the leadership of the Secretary-General, has made to than $16 billion. The new Adaptation Action Coalition, address this issue. But, as the Secretary-General has which we launched in January, will target action on once again advocated, there is much more still to priority sectors. do. In that regard, the Security Council must play its However, as we have heard today, and, indeed, as important part. We need the United Nations system to the Council has repeatedly shown since its inception, report comprehensively on the links between climate global threats can be countered only with united global and security so that we have the best information to action. All the arms of this great institution that is the inform our decisions. United Nations, including the Security Council, have a We also need the right people with the right training critical role to play to meet this existential threat. We and experience within United Nations missions to must act effectively. We must act urgently. And we must anticipate and respond to the climate crisis that exists. act together. It is that critical action that is required. Of course, those missions should be as clean and as Indeed, it is our collective moral duty, for it falls on green as possible, through responsible stewardship. all of us — all of us here today — as custodians of the future we are choosing and building for our children To serve our shared interest in international peace, and generations to come. the Security Council should listen to those countries experiencing at first-hand the impact of insecurity The President: I now call on the Vice-Minister, compounded by climate change. It is also crucial that Secretary (West), in the Ministry of External Affairs women and girls play a full and meaningful role in the of India. work to address climate change and resolve conflict, if Ms. Sandhu (India): We thank you, Mr. President, we are to address gender inequality and truly achieve for convening today’s discussion on climate and our set objectives. security. We also appreciate the briefings by SecretaryInclusive and united, we can show global leadership General António Guterres and Ms. Ilwad Elman, in the face of global threats. As all members are aware, underlining the different risks of climate change. the United Kingdom is truly honoured to be hosting the There can be no doubt that climate change is twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United one of the defining challenges of our time. Over the Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, but past several decades, Member States have engaged a few weeks from now in Glasgow. At that Conference, purposefully and in a focused manner to put in place as our Prime Minister articulated only yesterday in his commitments relating to mitigation, adaptation, speech to the General Assembly (see A/76/PV.9), we financing, technology transfer and so on, so that climate are approaching a crunch point, where those efforts change can be addressed holistically. Indeed, the Paris 16/21 21-26297 23/09/2021 Maintenance of international peace and security S/PV. 8864 Agreement on Climate Change clearly brings out the simplification of the causes of conflict will not help interconnectedness of those issues under the United resolve them, or will it justify extreme policy measures. Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. We need to bring back our focus to where it should The measures to tackle climate change have been built be — combating climate change. India is a leader in on an integrated structure so that it is equitable to all climate action and is on track to meet its commitments parties, especially developing countries. Therefore, under the Paris Agreement. We currently have the addressing one aspect of climate change while world’s fastest-growing solar energy programme and ignoring others will be counter-productive. Climate have expanded access to clean cooking fuel to cover action needs to be based on fundamental and agreed more than 80 million households, making it one of principles, the most important of which is the principle the largest clean-energy drives globally. In addition, of common but differentiated responsibilities and 370 million LED light bulbs have been distributed, respective capabilities. resulting in a reduction of more than 38 million tons of Furthermore, the issue of climate change is being carbon dioxide emissions annually. We are committed discussed in a focused manner by the United Nations to installing 450 gigawatts of new and renewable energy in the relevant mechanisms. Whether it be on climate by 2030. change, biodiversity, desertification or other issues, Apart from domestic actions, India has also taken mechanisms have been put in place to take further a lead in bringing together international coalitions to action. Countries across the globe have taken on several generate long-term impact through partnerships. The commitments under those mechanisms, including the International Solar Alliance is a leading example of how nationally determined contributions. collective action translates into a positive global climate Given that background, picking one aspect of impact. It is among the fastest growing international climate change — namely climate security — and organizations today, with 80 members and 24 more dealing with it in this forum, which is not designed to joining. India has set aside $1.6 billion under soft loans address a multifaceted problem of that nature, would to supplement such efforts. The Coalition for Disaster not be desirable. Bringing climate security into the Resilient Infrastructure is another successful initiative Security Council discourse while disregarding basic for enhancing cooperation and building resilience principles and practices relating to climate change has against natural disasters. India has allocated $70 million the potential to disrupt our overall discussion on this to support the work of the Coalition. India and Sweden extremely important topic. When we deliberate the launched the Leadership Group for Industry Transition, securitization of climate, we should be careful not to with the support of the World Economic Forum in 2019, build a parallel climate track. We need to continue on providing a platform for energy-intensive industry to the path of inclusive decision-making, to which Member progress on low-carbon pathways. India is also one of States have already agreed. the 10 global champions for energy transition. While we appreciate that climate change has What we need now is to enhance action on all impacted the lives of people and exacerbated conflict, important policies that address climate change, to view conflicts in poorer parts of the world through including fulfilling the commitments on climate the prism of climate change will serve only to financing and technology transfer. For a vast number of present a lopsided narrative, when the reasons for the developing countries — especially during the pandemic, conflict are to be found elsewhere. The report of the when financing is drying up — robust financing for Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change clearly climate action cannot be overemphasized. While we may call for innovative financing, we need to be careful states that the effect of climate variability on violence not to indulge in innovative accounting. The pathway to is contested. Climate change may enhance conflict $100 billion in climate financing is critical for meeting but cannot be determined as a reason for it. A study targets under the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. of nationally determined contributions also indicates that, while parties acknowledge the adverse effects To conclude, we call for a more comprehensive and of climate change on their economies, we need to be collective approach, through stronger partnerships and conscious about looking at it as a risk to their social strengthened global efforts, so that we can address the stability or as an issue of peace and security. An overchallenge of climate change together. 21-2629717/21 S/PV.8864 Maintenance of international peace and security 23/09/2021 Ms. King (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines): Fourthly, it is also crucial that developed We are confronted by the continued deepening of the countries meet their overseas development assistance planetary crisis that is climate change. As a small commitments and provide greater support for climate island developing State particularly affected by that adaptation and mitigation as part of a strategy to avert existential threat and facing ever-increasing loss and climate-related security risks. Scaled-up support to damage from the adverse impacts of climate change, conflict-affected countries through concessionary we value this timely meeting. I thank the Secretaryloans, debt relief and quick-impact projects should be General and Ms. Elman for their excellent contributions provided to alleviate some of the challenges encountered. to advancing understanding in that context. We hope Fifthly, as they are integral to the whole-ofthat today’s meeting contributes to comprehensive multilateral approaches that systematically address the system approach, peacekeeping, peacemaking and consequences of climate change for international peace peacebuilding should be pursued concurrently as part and security. Allow me to share our views on how we of a peace and security, development and humanitarian should approach that threat multiplier. continuum. In order to be sustainable, plans and strategies must include climate change considerations First, in order to tackle climate-related security at all policy stages, namely, early warning and risks in relevant situations on the Security Council’s assessment, planning and financing, implementation agenda, we must build capacity and enhance expertise and monitoring. Failing to account for the reality of the across the United Nations. That includes embedding adverse effects of climate change in those contexts can climate security advisers in relevant operations and have long-term impacts, undermining agreements and considering the appointment of a special representative settlement arrangements in peace negotiations due to of the Secretary General on climate-related security the changed environmental conditions. risks to strengthen coordination within the system on the issue. We commend the work of the Climate Sixthly, the Peacebuilding Commission plays Security Mechanism, which has enhanced the capacity a valuable role, alongside partner institutions, in of the United Nations system to address climate-related assisting Member States with advancing peacebuilding security risks in an efficient and logical manner. in line with national priorities. We encourage closer coordination between the Peacebuilding Commission Secondly, the Security Council must not sidestep and the Security Council, including on issues related to its responsibility to address the security implications climate, security and peacebuilding. of climate change. To be sure, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change remains the Finally, we will not effectively tackle this issue primary body tasked with the responsibility to address without the inclusion of all stakeholders, especially climate change. At the same time, by utilizing the tools those who have been consistently underrepresented and at its disposal, the Council can take tangible actions. yet are the most impacted by the security consequences Such actions include requesting increased training of climate change. Women’s full, equal and meaningful and enhanced reporting on climate and security; participation and leadership is critical as we seek strengthening coordination with relevant actors at solutions. Similarly, young people must be included the local, national and regional levels; and adopting a and engaged in these discussions and decision-making focused draft resolution to better enable the Council processes. Climate change has multi-layered and to address climate and security risks. Furthermore, compounding effects in fragile and conflict contexts. the Council’s Informal Expert Group on Climate and The Security Council has recognized that, even if Security is a useful forum to help the Council improve framed as a possibility, in a number of resolutions, but its awareness and understanding of the issues, and it we need to act on it. should be supported. Mr. Polyanskiy (Russian Federation) (spoke in Thirdly, as the foremost way to avert climate-driven Russian): The Russian Federation wholeheartedly security risks remains significant mitigation action, shares the international concern regarding the issue major and historical emitters must honour their of climate change. According to our calculations, the commitments made under the Paris Agreement on climate in Russia is warming 2.5 times faster than the Climate Change and act to keep temperature rise to global average. At the same time, we are witnessing 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. increasingly destructive natural phenomena. The need 18/21 21-26297 23/09/2021 Maintenance of international peace and security S/PV. 8864 to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions and adapt to the extent does the Council have the necessary mechanisms negative consequences of climate change is therefore for this purpose without duplicating the main bodies clear to us. of the United Nations, and, more importantly, without impeding their efforts? There is a Russian saying that We welcome the Secretary-General’s consistent illustrates this point: too many cooks spoil the broth. calls for the mobilization of political will and resources to reach effective agreements on the climate track. The I will be frank. We believe that the persistent and recent meeting organized by the Secretary-General insistent attempts to advance the premise of climate together with the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom change as a threat to international peace and security for members of the Group of Twenty and the most in the Security Council agenda at all costs introduces vulnerable countries was once again an opportunity to a completely unnecessary political component to an make sure we are on the same page and engage in a already complicated and sensitive discussion. Such an constructive exchange of views. That will undoubtedly approach is also liable to artificially simplify the way have a positive impact on preparations for the upcoming we deal with the situation, which in turn is liable to twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United result in one-sided or futile solutions that do nothing to Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change strengthen stability worldwide. (UNFCCC) in Glasgow. We also commend the targeted Perhaps our colleagues, by involving the Security engagement by Mr. Guterres with Member States on Council, simply wish to raise the profile of the climate that matter, taking into account national specificities. discussion. However, I think that they would agree For our part, we are committed to fulfilling that the inclusion or non-inclusion of any theme or our international obligations in the climate sphere. issue on the Security Council agenda should not be The Government of the Russian Federation is taking a gauge of its importance or relevance. The question consistent steps to reduce the carbon footprint of the of climate change is fully applicable in this regard, national economy. We are in the process of finalizing owing to its specificities. It will not benefit in any way our Low Emission Strategy for the Socioeconomic from incorporation into the Council’s agenda, and yet Development of the Russian Federation until 2050. We misunderstandings and duplications will be abundant are also paying special attention to reducing methane in such a scenario. emissions. We stand ready to cooperate with all Turning to the consequences of climate change, interested parties. Russia stands ready to discuss this subject solely Since climate change concerns us all, we believe vis-à-vis specific country and regional matters, relying it must become a kind of unifying agenda for the on verified scientific data and taking into account the international community. That is the only way to ensure full picture of every specific incident. To be frank, that the issue can be effectively addressed for the benefit there are many more such situations than there are of present and future generations of humankind. Indeed, agenda items on the Security Council. Moreover, let us the development of such cooperation is the focus of the not forget that climate is but one of a host of factors that UNFCCC and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. make the economic and social situation for people in Relevant efforts are also under way in the General specific countries all the more difficult. Assembly, the Economic and Social Council, the HighI wish to emphasize the following. We believe it Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development, the is counterproductive to include the climate component Peacebuilding Commission and in other specialized in the mandates of peacekeeping and special political bodies. In line with the principle of a division of labour missions. The assessment of climate-related risks, the at the United Nations, they have been designated to deal conduct of the relevant analyses and the development of with the issue of combating climate change. response measures should be carried out in specialized We are increasingly witnessing attempts by our forums. Peacekeepers do not have the relevant expertise colleagues to add climate change to the Security nor the necessary tools to propose viable solutions for Council’s agenda, as has been mentioned during many climate change, given that experts have completed the of the statements we have heard today. And yet we have requisite studies in this field and have the necessary a couple of questions: how effective is this in terms training, but specialists in peace and security do not. of resolving the tasks we have before us? And to what Skills-building courses for the latter will not be enough. 21-2629719/21 S/PV.8864 Maintenance of international peace and security 23/09/2021 Moreover, expansion of the mandate of peacekeepers the cornerstones of global climate governance. We is liable to result in additional administrative and must uphold the Framework Convention and the Paris financial costs and can undermine the effectiveness of Agreement as the main channels of the work in this mandate delivery by Blue Helmets. area, and we must respect the right of all countries to speak on equal footing on climate change issues. In conclusion, I wish to note that the Security It would be inappropriate for the Security Council as Council is a very serious but not universal instrument a forum to replace collective decision-making by the at the disposal of the United Nations, and its use is international community. liable to backfire with respect to our struggle to counter climate change. Let us not forget this. Let us not, for Secondly, it is essential for developed countries the benefit of the advancement of political agendas, to earnestly fulfil their international obligations and disperse our efforts on this important track. commitments. Developed countries bear a historical Mr. Zhang Jun (China) (spoke in Chinese): China responsibility for climate change. In discussing climate welcomes the Prime Minister of Ireland to the Chamber change and security, regardless of the platform or as he presides over today’s meeting. We thank Secretaryperspective, we should not lose sight of this very basic General Guterres and Ms. Elman for their briefings. fact. Developed countries cannot always look to others to shoulder their responsibilities. They must take China highly commends the United Nations and concrete actions that lead to the substantial reduction its Secretary-General for their role in leading and of emissions, realize net-zero or even negative carbon coordinating the multilateral process on climate. emissions at an early date while honouring their The recent report issued by the Intergovernmental commitments on climate financing, fill the pre-2020 Panel on Climate Change entitled Climate Change annual funding gap of $100 billion to the greatest 2021: The Physical Science Basis warns us that extent possible, provide a clear timetable and road map climate change has become a real threat to the survival from 2021 to 2025, and formulate a new collective and development of humankind. The international quantitative funding target post-2025. community must therefore shoulder its responsibility, In that regard, we have heard the appeals issued take action and work together to tackle this challenge. by many countries. We have also heard the SecretaryChina supports the upcoming twenty-sixth session General himself. We hope that developed countries will of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations respond to those appeals positively, which is key to the Framework Convention on Climate Change so that early achievement of the net-zero target. There is not it can achieve a fruitful outcome and promote the only a need for the international community to make comprehensive, effective and sustained implementation such an appeal, but also a need to establish an oversight of the Paris Agreement. mechanism to ensure with certainty that developed countries will live up to their commitments. The relationship between climate and security is very complex. The Security Council, on the basis Thirdly, it is necessary that the challenge of climate of its mandate emanating from the United Nations change be addressed in the course of sustainable Charter and of its existing agenda, needs to get it right development. Climate change is a by-product of in terms of the manner and extent of its engagement humankind’s unsustainable development models. The in discussing and addressing issues related to climate only way out, once and for all, lies in a holistic approach and security. In this regard, I would like to make the within the framework of sustainable development. For following comments. enhanced resilience to climate change, countries should integrate a climate-change response into their national First, it is imperative that we maintain the main development programmes, aligning it with poverty channel for international cooperation on climate eradication, employment promotion, security and change. Climate change is a shared challenge facing clean-energy rollout. humankind that requires a global response. The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and In view of the insufficient capacity for the Paris Agreement constitute the most authoritative climate-change mitigation and adaptation in countries platform. The principles of common but differentiated in conflict, the Security Council may focus on responsibility, respective capability and equity are climate-change-reduced risks under country specific 20/21 21-26297 23/09/2021 Maintenance of international peace and security S/PV. 8864 agenda items, mobilize, in the light of the situation of our active contributions to promote a green global on the ground, a greater input of resources from the recovery and achieve global goals on climate change. international community and support United Nations And it demonstrates China’s unwavering determination specialized agencies in helping countries in conflict and practical action in building a community of life for better meet the challenge. humankind and nature. It is worth pointing out that not all of the countries China has made its support for the global effort to on the Council’s agenda have been plunged into war address climate change known and has continued its and chaos because of climate change. Neither does the support. China is a reliable partner and takes concrete Council have the necessary specialized knowledge, actions in that regard. mechanism or tools to address climate change. The fifteenth session of the Conference of the We therefore must refrain from using a wholesale Parties to the Convention on Biodiversity will take approach to the climate issue as the key to addressing place next month in Kunming, Yunnan province, all problems. We must refrain from including it in the China. Using the opportunity of the fifteenth session mandate of peacekeeping operations so as to not impact of the Conference, China stands ready to work together the Security Council’s ability to effectively deliver on with other countries around the world to make new its mandate and to refrain from a duplication of effort. contributions to global environmental governance and As the world’s largest developing country, China to jointly build a clean and beautiful planet that we has always been a contributor to global climate call home. governance, a leader in the building of a global The President: There are no more names inscribed ecological civilization and an implementer of the Paris on the list of speakers. Agreement on Climate Change. Before concluding, I would like once again to thank In his address during the general debate of the all of the participants who joined us today. In particular, General Assembly at its seventy-sixth session on my thanks go to Secretary-General Guterres for being 21 September (see A/76/PV.3), Chinese President Xi with us for the entirety of the meeting. We appreciate Jinping announced that China will step up support his commitment and interest. for other developing countries in developing green and low-carbon energy and will not build any new I would also like to thank the Member States and regional groups that have so far submitted written coal-fired power projects abroad. That is another statements on the subject of today’s discussion. important measure of the initiative announced by Statements that are received by the end of today will President Xi to address global climate change. He form part of the compilation of statements from this also announced last year that China will strive for its meeting. We look forward to receiving more. carbon dioxide emissions to peak by 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2060. That represents another The meeting rose at 10.05 a.m. 21-2629721/21
