United Nations S/PV.8850 Security Council Provisional Seventy-sixth year 8850th meeting Tuesday, 7 September 2021, 10 a.m. New York President: Ms. Byrne Nason. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Ireland) Members: China. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Dai Bing Estonia. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Jürgenson France . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. De Rivière India . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Tirumurti Kenya. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Kiboino Mexico. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. De la Fuente Ramírez Niger. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Aougi Norway . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ms. Juul Russian Federation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ms. Evstigneeva Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ms. DeShong Tunisia. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Ladeb United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . . Dame Barbara Woodward United States of America. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mrs. Thomas-Greenfield Viet Nam . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Dang Agenda Maintenanace of international peace and security This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches delivered in other languages. The final text will be printed in the Official Records of the Security Council. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 (verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org). 21‑24395 (E) *2124395* S/PV.8850 Maintenance of international peace and security 07/09/2021 The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m. year, I recall looking down from the podium, together with Lakhdar, at the bearded men who had taken the Adoption of the agenda seats in the first few rows. The agenda was adopted. We saw a woman further back stand, praise Allah and launch their charter. It was an important reminder Maintenance of international peace and security that women’s rights are not Western rights. They are The President: In accordance with rule 39 of fundamental human rights, which those Afghan women the Council’s provisional rules of procedure, I invite had reclaimed in accordance with their cultural values. the following briefers to participate in this meeting: In the almost 20 years since then, hard-won gains in Her Excellency Mrs. Mary Robinson, Chair of The gender equality and women’s rights have been secured Elders; and His Excellency Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, through constitutional, legislative and policy changes. Elder Emeritus. We cannot allow the women and girls of In accordance with rule 39 of the Council’s Afghanistan to be deprived of those rights, including provisional rules of procedure, I also invite the following the right to leave the country. Members of the Security to participate in this meeting: Her Excellency Mrs. Ellen Council cannot fail them. I was glad to see the letter Johnson-Sirleaf, member of The Elders and former that Ireland and Mexico, as co-Chairs of the Informal President of Liberia; and His Excellency Mr. Ernesto Expert Group on Women, Peace and Security, wrote to Zedillo, member of The Elders and former President the Security Council in August, reminding the Council of Mexico. of its responsibility with in this regard. Resolution 2593 (2021), which was adopted on 30 August, is a good first The Security Council will now begin its step, but the Council must now go further. I call in consideration of the item on its agenda. particular on China and Russia, in their dealings with I give the floor to Mrs. Robinson. the Taliban, to encourage the Taliban to recognize that the participation of women in society and the education Mrs. Robinson: It is a privilege to brief members of of girls on an equal basis with boys are non-negotiable the Security Council once again as Chair of The Elders, and must be respected. and I thank the Government of Ireland for inviting us to address the Council. I am honoured as well to be here Collectively, members of the Council have all been together with my fellow Elders — Lakhdar Brahimi, entrusted with a powerful mandate to act on behalf of Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf and Ernesto Zedillo. Mr. Brahimi the United Nations as the primary international body will focus particularly on Afghanistan, and I shall raise charged with maintaining international peace and other issues of concern to The Elders. security. As all know, that places heavy responsibilities First, however, I would like to share a memory on all members of the Council to not only reflect the of my visit to Afghanistan as United Nations High immediate national interests of their national capitals, Commissioner for Human Rights in early March 2002. I but to also work collectively in the global interest. A met with Sima Samar, then Minister of Women’s Affairs, united and purposeful Security Council is needed now and Noeleen Heyzer, then Head of the United Nations more than ever. Development Fund for Women, who had been helping The coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic has about 95 women draw up their draft charter of women’s taken a heavy toll, first and foremost in human lives, but rights. I was surprised to find that those women had also economic growth, political momentum and social been judges, lawyers, doctors and teachers who were inequality. It has also demonstrated manifold failures active in their community before the Taliban. of international cooperation. We must be proactive in They had decided to launch their charter on learning from them and preparing for the next pandemic. International Women’s Day in the cinema they used to The report of the Independent Panel for Pandemic go to before the Taliban. It had been destroyed, but the Prevention and Response, entitled COVID-19: Make It women cleared about 15 feet of rubble, and the United the Last Pandemic, sets out a pathway for strengthening Nations provided the canvas roof cover. The United the multilateral architecture on pandemic prevention Nations also guaranteed it would be safe, and the women and response. The Elders have called on global leaders therefore came without their burkas. On 8 March that to make a political declaration at the general debate of 2/23 21-24395 07/09/2021 Maintenance of international peace and securityS/PV.8850 the General Assembly later this month to commit to That power of investigation should be used implementing fully the report’s recommendations. proactively by the Council to engage early in situations, before large-scale violence breaks out The Elders are also alarmed about the existential dangers posed by nuclear weapons, as recent years and hits the international media. have seen the breakdown of arms control agreements, On Tigray, the protection of women and girls must the emergence of dangerous new technologies and be a top priority as the conflict continues to escalate. cyberwarfare capabilities, and the serious risk of a new The Council has been briefed on the severity of the nuclear arms race taking hold among the nuclear Powers. humanitarian crisis and food insecurity that is directly We are also concerned about the failure to date to secure resulting from the conflict, as well as on the horrific a new agreement between the United States and Iran on scale of human rights atrocities, including the use of its nuclear programme. We reiterate our support for a sexual violence against women and girls as a weapon full, unconditional return to the Joint Comprehensive of war. The Council must take action to incentivize the Plan of Action. parties to negotiate a ceasefire. Ending the fighting is the The upcoming Review Conference of the Parties only way to cease the suffering. The Council could also to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear consider making a visit to Ethiopia and Tigray in order Weapons (NPT) will be a critical moment for action. to focus attention on the conditions on the ground and The non-nuclear-weapon States will be expecting the urgent need for a political — not military — solution. the five recognized nuclear Powers to demonstrate A similar unity of purpose is needed on Myanmar, concrete progress on their NPT commitments to pursue where, six months on from the military coup, the country disarmament in good faith. Ensuring a successful review conference should be a top priority for the Security remains in turmoil. The people of Myanmar do not Council. We urge the Council to maintain the issue of want a return to military rule. The normalization and nuclear weapons actively on its agenda. I am pleased that acceptance of an unlawful coup is not a route to regional Ireland is organizing a Council meeting later this month stability. On the contrary, the military’s extension of to mark the twenty-fifth anniversary of the opening the state of emergency and the continued unlawful for signature of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban detention of the National League for Democracy’s Treaty. I urge the Council to use that opportunity to political leadership risk taking the country down a path send a clear message of support for the Treaty’s entry of protracted civil conflict and cannot be tolerated. into force. The Council must support and strengthen, not Urgency of action is equally needed on climate hide behind, the role of the Association of Southeast change, which is a threat multiplier to all the issues Asian Nations (ASEAN), which has so far been unable on the Council’s agenda. The latest science from the to progress the implementation of its five-point plan Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has clearly agreed in April. I note the reports that there may now be shown the risks posed to planetary stability and human agreement by the military to a humanitarian ceasefire survival. While the Council has already started to until the end of the year, following engagement by the grapple with climate change as a security threat, I hope new ASEAN Special Envoy, and urge all parties to seize it will now engage more decisively and with a resolution, that opportunity. as it is a core threat to international peace and security. Common ground among Council members can be On the role of the Council in preventing and found now on the need for strong action to ensure a responding to violent conflict, I urge members to use comprehensive United Nations response to COVID-19, the tools at their disposal. Article 34 of the Charter of which is devastating in Myanmar, and the humanitarian the United Nations states: crisis. The United Nations Secretary-General’s Special “The Security Council may investigate any Envoy should also be empowered to work with the new dispute, or any situation which might lead to ASEAN Special Envoy to find a political solution to the international friction or give rise to a dispute, in crisis through confidence-building and dialogue among order to determine whether the continuance of all parties. Council members with influence on the the dispute or situation is likely to endanger the Tatmadaw have a particular duty to encourage it to open maintenance of international peace and security.” up to the possibility of dialogue. 21-243953/23 S/PV.8850 Maintenance of international peace and security 07/09/2021 Finally, on Israel and Palestine, the latest cycle territory. Is it not high time to put an end to the failed of violent conflict this year has shown beyond doubt policies that so unjustly betray the fundamental rights the need for a fresh approach by the international of the Palestinian people to self-determination and a life community that addresses root causes and is based on of dignity? respect for international law. The Council has failed to Mrs. Mary Robinson, our President, has eloquently address persistent violations of resolution 2334 (2016), and clearly set forth some of the key concerns and allowing the parties’ actions to undermine prospects hopes of The Elders, including on Afghanistan. Now for peace and a two-State solution. The Council should that it is my turn to say a few words, I shall speak only reaffirm its commitment to the resolution’s terms on Afghanistan, but I do not have enough time to say and take strong action to hold the parties accountable everything that needs to be said on the subject. for violations. Member States should also encourage all parties to cooperate with the investigation by the As of Sunday — the day before yesterday — the International Criminal Court into the situation in brave attempt of Mr. Amrullah Saleh, Vice-President of Palestine as part of their commitment to the rules-based the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, and Mr. Ahmad international system. Massoud, son of legendary guerrilla leader the late Mr. Ahmad Shah Massoud, to resist in the Panjshir Valley On many of the issues I have just discussed, I was defeated. The Taliban now exercise practically sole recognize that real and serious divisions exist between control over the country’s entire territory. members of the Council and that internal political divisions have unfortunately led the Council to fall short Afghanistan today is not the Afghanistan I knew in of its responsibilities in many instances. Nevertheless, I the late 1990s and from 2001 to early January 2004. I urge all Council members to return to the fundamental therefore do not claim to have any expertise or inside basis for their mandate and to work tirelessly to find information — only a little experience and mainly deep common ground and build consensus wherever possible. feelings of sympathy, concern and respect for the great Every Council member should recognize that they have people of Afghanistan. a common interest in upholding global peace, security On human rights, there is little to add to what and stability. That ought to be a guiding principle for the Mrs. Robinson forcefully said a moment ago. At the Council’s work in the years ahead. centre of the mandate and action of the United Nations in The President: I thank Mrs. Robinson for Afghanistan is the protection of the fundamental rights her briefing. of all Afghans, especially the most vulnerable, namely, women and girls, the internally displaced, ethnic and I now give the floor to Mr. Brahimi. religious minorities and human rights defenders, inter Mr. Brahimi: It is an honour for me to address alia. To continue its work, the United Nations must have the Security Council on behalf of The Elders for the the Council’s support. It will have to establish a system second time. of cooperation with national and local authorities which, at present, means the Taliban. On the first occasion, four years ago, I spoke mostly on Palestine (see S/PV.7977). Alas, things in that To say that the humanitarian situation is dire would unhappy occupied country have not improved — quite be an understatement, and needs are most urgent. Yet, the opposite. The occupying Power is responsible for the flow of aid has stopped abruptly and the inclination what is now an overt apartheid situation. Its excessively of donors is to abandon Afghanistan now that the Taliban harsh oppression and systematic dispossession has regained control of the country. The international of Palestinians has embarrassed even some of its community would like to resume its support for the unconditional supporters around the world. people of Afghanistan but many, perhaps most, do not wish to deal with the Taliban and are not ready to grant The question of Palestine has been on the Council’s immediate diplomatic recognition to the Government agenda since soon after the United Nations came into the Taliban is about to form. existence, in 1945. Five years ago, the Council adopted resolution 2334 (2016) — a landmark decision that On its side, the leadership of the Taliban does not set out clearly the obligations of those responsible for seem to speak in a single voice. Some among them addressing the key barriers to achieving peace, including say they will return to the views and practices which the relentless ongoing settlement of occupied Palestinian were theirs when their regime was defeated following 4/23 21-24395 07/09/2021 Maintenance of international peace and securityS/PV.8850 11 September 2001. On the contrary, others say they period — let us say six months, for example — and take shall respect and reach out to their opponents and try to time to prepare the strong mandate UNAMA will need form with them a genuinely inclusive Government. in the coming new phase. In the meantime, the country’s State institutions are I have the impression that the international parties paralysed and the people of Afghanistan are abandoned. involved in Afghanistan realize that boycotting the Famine and despair look like an inescapable fatality for Taliban in the 1990s was not the best option. Kept in total millions of men, women and children. What should be isolation, the Taliban had a distorted image of the rest done? I do not claim to have the answer to that question of the world. I sometimes wonder if Mullah Mohammed but what I hear from young, bright Afghans, in and Omar, with whom I had three long meetings, would outside of Afghanistan, is that it is necessary and urgent have allowed the destruction of the Giant Buddhas of to give peace a chance. As a first extremely urgent Bamiyan had the movement and Government enjoyed step, it is for the Secretary-General, acting with the full full international recognition at the time. Likewise, support of a united Security Council, to send a Special would Osama Bin Laden have been given the opportunity Representative to Kabul to start a frank discussion with and protection he needed to prepare and execute the the leadership of the Taliban. attacks on 11 September if the Taliban had enjoyed international recognition? At the same time, an urgent, important humanitarian programme needs to be put in place. The United Just as the United Nations and the international Nations and its agencies and large non-governmental community are asking themselves those questions, so organizations in the country have the experience needed should the Taliban look back and ask itself questions. Its to implement such a programme. Their local staff is leaders and representatives are now received officially highly competent and dedicated. During the Taliban in regional and international capitals from Jakarta to rule in the 1990s, the United Nations pulled out all its Moscow and from Ankara to Beijing. The Taliban thinks international staff, as it has done this time. The local that it now represents the overwhelming majority of the staff stayed on the job and performed in a remarkable people of Afghanistan and that it governs on their behalf. fashion. The Taliban did not interfere with them. In fact, it is no different from the authors of a coup d’état or a political party that won an election. Many of its The United Nations should obtain a clear guarantee compatriots do not support it. It must understand that from the Taliban that, like last time, it shall not interfere with the hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions of Afghans, humanitarian operations — those of the United Nations men and women, rushing to the Kabul airport or to the itself and those of other international, humanitarian borders of each of their neighbours are but the tip of the governmental and non-governmental organizations. iceberg — many more Afghans criticize the Taliban and I am consciously encouraged by the recent report do not welcome its rule. from Martin Griffiths, the United Nations humanitarian I would like to conclude with a point that concerns chief, that the Taliban has committed to guaranteeing not only Afghanistan, but a large number of other the safety, security and freedom of movement of all countries. Political Islam is now a reality in many humanitarian workers, men and women alike, and Muslim majority countries, from Indonesia to Morocco. humanitarian access to people in need. The United We see it in various shades and forms. It is important Nations should hold the Taliban accountable for and urgent that the various religious, ideological and those commitments and ensure that that guarantee political families that live in our shared world learn extends, not just to the staff of the United Nations, but how to put an end to mutual exclusion, and understand also to the staff of humanitarian governmental and instead that it is necessary and beneficial for all if we non-governmental organizations. accept living together in tolerance, mutual respect and cooperation. I understand that the Security Council will examine the renewal of the mandate of the United Nations The President: I thank Mr. Brahimi for his briefing. Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) on I now give the floor to those Council members who 17 September. Circumstances in Afghanistan being wish to make statements. what they are at present, UNAMA is needed more now than ever before. The Council should perhaps now limit Mr. Aougi (Niger) (spoke in French): I would like its action to a technical rollover of a sufficiently long to commend Mrs. Mary Robinson, Chair of The Elders, 21-243955/23 S/PV.8850 Maintenance of international peace and security 07/09/2021 and Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, conflict mediator, for their The Security Council must continue to act swiftly briefings. I thank other members of The Elders for and effectively to adapt to non-traditional threats and attending today’s meeting. rapid-onset crises, such as the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic. In that regard, the The Security Council, whose primary responsibility Council must make better use of resolutions 2532 is the maintenance of international peace and security, (2020) and 2565 (2021), on COVID-19, by monitoring must continue to recall the importance of the Charter of compliance with, and the effective implementation the United Nations, which furnishes it with its tools for of, those resolutions by Member States and the other action, and reaffirm its commitment to it. The Security stakeholders. The pandemic has shown us the failure of Council must call for respect for and the implementation the global health system and the need to help each other of its decisions, pursuant to Article 25 of the Charter, in a world where States are interdependent. and ensure regular follow-up. More than ever before, To that end, like some other States, my delegation we now know that the threats of nuclear proliferation calls for international solidarity in distributing and climate change are genuine, notwithstanding the vaccines, the global truce requested by the Secretarydiverging views among members of the Council on General for humanitarian reasons and a strengthening those issues. It is therefore important and necessary to of multilateralism with regard to health. discuss with and listen to all stakeholders and to use the tools of negotiation and dialogue to ensure peaceful In conclusion, my delegation would like to encourage dispute settlement among nations. The Elders, who, given their extensive experience and influence, could serve as a reference point for the On the issue of nuclear weapons, my delegation United Nations institutions, in general, and the Security would like to recall The Elders’ view with regard to the Council, in particular. Their earlier messages and those need for Member States to comply with their four-D of today show a strong sense of leadership and practical position — doctrine, defuse, deploy and decrease. advice, which will clearly help us in our future decisions. Regarding the climate crisis that the world is currently The Elders should engage with regional and experiencing, it should be recognized that it has a direct subregional organizations and youth and civil society impact on security in such a way that talking about the groups, which are also the Council’s partners and link among climate, peace and security is inevitable counterparts, to discuss and share their experiences given the various conflicts in the world caused by the regarding climate change, nuclear proliferation, impact of climate change, particularly in the Sahel terrorism and other global phenomena related to the region and the Lake Chad basin. maintenance of international peace and security. In view of those challenges, multilateralism should Dame Barbara Woodward (United Kingdom): Let be promoted and strengthened in order to maintain peace me begin by thanking Their Excellencies Mrs. Mary and security, foster sustainable development, combat Robinson and Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi for their briefings climate change, propose peaceful solutions to conflicts today. I also welcome Their Excellencies Mrs. Ellen and promote post-conflict reconstruction. My delegation Johnson-Sirleaf and Mr. Ernesto Zedillo. The United therefore calls on the international community to Kingdom values The Elders’ views on how the Security strengthen its commitment to multilateralism by placing Council can play its part in improving multilateral the United Nations at the centre of its actions. responses to conflict prevention and evolving threats to international peace and security. In that respect, we believe that it is important that the Secretary-General continue to properly fulfil his I would like to focus my intervention on three mandate under the Charter of the United Nations and to points: first, the Council’s response to the evolution of impartially uphold the Organization’s values and moral threats to international peace and security; secondly, authority. Engagement between the Secretary-General some country-specific examples of where the Council and other Member States, as well as with the members of can have a real impact; and, finally, the importance of a the Security Council, is necessary and should continue. system-wide approach to conflict prevention. In that regard, the Secretary-General must always use First, in the 76 years since the Security Council his good offices to prevent the emergence, escalation was entrusted with the responsibility to maintain and spread of international conflicts. international peace and security, the nature of the 6/23 21-24395 07/09/2021 Maintenance of international peace and securityS/PV.8850 threats that we face has evolved. How we respond to Finally, the Council has primary responsibility for new challenges, including climate change and building international peace and security but it cannot act alone. back better from the coronavirus disease, will shape our A coherent approach to conflict prevention requires world over the next decade and well beyond. action by the entire United Nations system, combining humanitarian, development and peacebuilding efforts As the threats to international peace and security and in coordination with regional organizations and evolve, so too must the Security Council. We should partners. In that regard, the United Kingdom strongly not self-censor. Where there are clear emerging threats supports the Secretary-General’s commitment to to international peace and security, we should consider embedding conflict prevention across the United Nations them in a timely fashion. We should respond more system and to delivering the sustaining peace agenda. quickly to the warning signs of conflict and violence By mobilizing all the tools at our collective disposal, we and act earlier to prevent conflict and escalation. We can build lasting, sustainable peace for all. should therefore be proactive in horizon-scanning and early warning instead of delaying until conflicts have Ms. DeShong (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines): Saint Vincent and the Grenadines commends the already passed a tipping point. Republic of Ireland for convening today’s discussion, Secondly, there are numerous ongoing crises where a and we thank our esteemed Elders for sharing such more nimble, creative Security Council response would keen insights, which are crucial to the maintenance help people affected by conflict. Arguably, we did not of international peace and security. Their continued act quickly enough to respond to the conflict in Tigray, dedication to all humankind reinforces the work of but continued and constructive Council engagement can the Security Council, and we pay them a great deal of prevent further escalation by encouraging the parties to gratitude for their unyielding commitment. reach political solutions to the conflict. Such engagement The complex web of interwoven peace and security would also support the efforts of the African Union. In challenges facing States today necessitate a reformed and that regard, I would welcome The Elders’ views on how effective multilateralism that prioritizes the collective the Council can best support the work of His Excellency good, protects our global commons and privileges the Mr. Olusegun Obasanjo as the African Union’s Special rights and perspectives of all nations and peoples. Envoy for the Horn of Africa. In far too many contexts, a lack of access to Recent events in Afghanistan have also demonstrated basic public goods, including food and water, shelter just how vital it is for us to engage on conflict prevention and sanitation, education and health, and stable and respond rapidly to changing situations on the employment, leads to growing levels of inequality and ground. The multilateral system and clear, coordinated disenfranchisement. A general reduction in public trust messaging across the international community, and protracted divisions along ethnic, communal and including from the Security Council, will be necessary political lines subsequently ensue. to ensure that the Taliban’s actions are consistent with In fragile settings, such as conflict-affected its words. The adoption of resolution 2593 (2021) last and climate-vulnerable States, poverty and week provides a strong foundation for the Council to underdevelopment remain prevalent features etched continue to play its part in that vital undertaking. across the social terrain. Those development challenges The Security Council has been united in often manifest themselves as painful cycles of hostility condemning violence and calling for the restoration and violence and spur devastating humanitarian crises. of democracy in Myanmar. However, the situation We can and we must do better to protect those made most continues to deteriorate. We welcome the appointment vulnerable among us and to provide peace and justice to of His Excellency Dato Erywan Yusof as Special Envoy all, in line with the Sustainable Development Goals. to Myanmar of the Association of Southeast Asian The bedrock principles of international law Nations. It is critical that the Tatmadaw engage with outlined in the Charter of the United Nations compel him to make progress on the five-point consensus and all countries to work together to address global address the humanitarian situation. In the Council, we challenges with full respect for — and complete should keep all options under review so as to remain adherence to — the sovereignty, territorial integrity engaged in support of a political solution. and political independence of all States. Those tenets 21-243957/23 S/PV.8850 Maintenance of international peace and security 07/09/2021 are non-negotiable and must continue to serve as the Robinson and Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi for sharing from centrepiece of all efforts to maintain international their vast experience. peace and security. National ownership over peace and Let me pick up on three key areas where Norway political processes must be bolstered, social contracts believes that the Security Council can do more in the rebuilt and earnest attempts at reconciliation pursued. years ahead. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines reiterates its First, the Security Council has a mandate to prevent calls for a comprehensive whole-of-system approach to conflict. Yet the Council often shies away from acting conflict prevention, conflict resolution and post-conflict early, even when there are urgent warning signs. This is peacebuilding activities. The Security Council should mainly due to political sensitivities and a wish by States collaborate more closely with the other main organs of the United Nations system — the General Assembly and to avoid Council attention with regard to their internal the Economic and Social Council — to fashion practical, affairs. This is regrettable, because it reduces the ability gender-responsive, people-centred and climate-sensitive of the Council to perform one of its most important development strategies and deliver them to conflictroles. Efforts to avert conflict by peaceful means are by affected countries in line with their national needs far the most effective way to reduce violent conflicts. and priorities. Tapping into available resources in the Secretariat Capacity-building initiatives should be accelerated and country teams, but also by drawing on partnerships as developed countries honour their overseas with regional and subregional organizations and development assistance commitments; and ambitious mechanisms for early warning and prevention, could be targets for curbing emissions ought to be set and met institutionalized, discreet and constructive. Initiatives by major polluters who in turn should provide increased such as the informal situational awareness briefings support for climate adaptation and mitigation initiatives. and fact-finding missions are positive and could be used actively by the Council to engage before conflicts As the climate crisis deepens, the attendant security erupt. Experience shows that transitions pose a risk and risks must be taken fully into account by the Council. need attention to prevent conflicts from re-erupting. Reparatory justice for past abuses — including historical They demand a coordinated whole-of-United Nations injustices that left dreadful legacies of inequity and approach in close collaboration with host States. underdevelopment in their wake — must also form part of any serious agenda for lasting peace and security. Secondly, inclusion is key for lasting outcomes. Peace processes that include civil society, particularly As we have borne witness throughout this pandemic, women’s organizations, peacebuilders, human rights we can protect ourselves only by protecting each other. defenders and victims, achieve greater ownership and The question of global equitable access to safe and legitimacy. We must continue to insist on the full, equal effective coronavirus disease vaccines remains one of and meaningful participation of women in all aspects of paramount concern. So too is the need for all States United Nations peace and security efforts and to address to abandon unilateral practices, including economic the gap between that goal and realities on the ground. sanctions and other extortionate measures, that impede efforts to recover sustainably from this pandemic. As we have learned today, women in Afghanistan face extreme uncertainty. While some in the Taliban Through the unity of purpose of the Security leadership have stated that women may return to work Council and the collective action of the wider and girls to school, other Taliban leaders are saying that international community — and further buttressed such issues are yet to be decided. Amid that uncertainty, by the continued advocacy of The Elders and other we see that rightful humanitarian access is hindered committed stakeholders — a better future for all of when women humanitarian workers are unable to humankind remains within our grasp. Let us work safely do their jobs and reach women and girls in need. together with a renewed sense of hope, devotion and The international community will not be able to help solidarity to provide peace, security and development to Afghanistan sufficiently and sufficiently respond to all who yearn for it. the deteriorating humanitarian situation if women are Ms. Juul (Norway): I would also like to thank not able to provide or receive humanitarian assistance Ireland for arranging this important meeting. Let and services. We must all be crystal clear that there me also express my great appreciation to Mrs. Mary is no solution to the humanitarian situation without 8/23 21-24395 07/09/2021 Maintenance of international peace and securityS/PV.8850 women humanitarian workers; there is no sustainable Mrs. Mary Robinson, Chair of The Elders, and His development without women in the work force; and Excellency Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, Elder Emeritus, for there is not sustainable peace without women being part their valuable insights. I also acknowledge the presence of a political solution. of Her Excellency President Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf of Liberia and His Excellency President Ernesto Zedillo of Another important lesson from Norway’s experience Mexico at today’s meeting. It is indeed a privilege to in peacebuilding is to be willing to talk to all actors in hear from The Elders, who are well-known proponents a conflict. Engaging actors that others have deemed off of peace and admired across the world for their limits can be essential to reaching political solutions. extraordinary work in promoting peace. To Norway, that was evident in the Middle East peace process, where the Palestine Liberation Organization The United Nations was established to save was involved at an early stage. The same approach has “succeeding generations from the scourge of war”. been important in many other efforts. Norway has had Article 1 of the Charter of the United Nations refers to contact with the Taliban, for instance, since 2007. collective measures to maintain international peace and security, which include actions mentioned in Chapter When armed conflict erupts, ensuring the protection VI and Chapter VIII of the Charter. Thus the United of civilians affected by the conflict is crucial in laying Nations Charter has prescribed a trigger mechanism for the foundations for sustainable peace. It is important collective action by the Council. Action by the Council that the Council remind the parties to the conflict of is not the first step but the last, after exhausting all their international legal obligations. Where necessary, options. At the same time, another important principle is it is also important that the Council take measures, that of non-intrusion into the domestic affairs of Member within its mandate, with the aim of ensuring that parties States. The challenge is to balance those important to conflict fulfil their obligations in that regard. We articles of faith when initiating action by the Council. fully concur with The Elders when they point out that sustainable peace will be reached only when root causes The Security Council, by the very nature of its of conflict are tackled, impunity is challenged and composition, has its inherent constraints. While the human rights take centre stage. United Nations was principally founded on the basis of the sovereign equality of nations, nowhere else is this Thirdly, the Security Council has a responsibility to principle more belied than in its principal organ of the adapt to changing circumstances and develop new ways Security Council. More than seven and a half decades of responding to non-traditional threats to international after its inception, that structural inequality continues. peace and security. The Security Council has already recognized that the effects of climate change constitute At the same time, we have seen and continue to a risk to global peace and security. This is also a matter witness the distressing consequences of interventions of conflict prevention. made without allowing for mediation efforts, especially regional mediation efforts. We therefore need to draw From Kabul to Tigray, from the outer atmosphere the right lessons from history, and calls for preventive to the depths of our oceans, the world is facing many diplomacy should be seen in those contexts. multi-faceted challenges. They can be solved only through multilateral cooperation, and the Security In recent years, efforts have been made to bring Council has a pivotal role to play. Often, the focus is thematic issues into the Council by projecting them on what the Council cannot achieve. However, this year as peace and security issues. While some of them are the Security Council has adopted a range of unanimous extremely important and timely, such as, for example, resolutions, ranging from coronavirus disease response, the women and peace and security agenda, we should be equally careful that instead of reforming the other renewed mandates for peace operations and prolonging United Nations organs, we are arrogating to ourselves the cross-border humanitarian aid mechanism to Syria. some of their responsibilities. We are generally encouraged by the unanimity and should continue to build on that productive work. In that context, I have the following five observations to offer. Mr. Tirumurti (India): At the outset, I would like to thank the Irish presidency for having convened this Many of the problems relating to Security Council important briefing with The Elders on “Maintenance of decisions stem from one important fact: that the Security international peace and security”. I thank Her Excellency Council is not truly representative of the contemporary 21-243959/23 S/PV.8850 Maintenance of international peace and security 07/09/2021 world. As Prime Minister Modi said in his address to Mr. Jaishankar, in his address to the Council earlier the General Assembly at its seventy-fifth session last this year (see S/2021/48), presented eight principles year (see A/75/PV.12), reform in the responses, in the of counter-terrorism. The Council needs to have processes and in the character of the United Nations is zero tolerance for non-State terror actors and their the need of the hour. sponsors. Equally important is to end the stalemate and The world today is significantly different from that expeditiously adopt a comprehensive convention on of 1945, and if Member States are to truly believe in international terrorism. the impartiality of the Security Council, it must take Fifthly, regarding the implementation of resolutions decisions based on certain impartial yardsticks. The 2532 (2020) and 2565 (2021), we need to be clear that Council has to be representative of the current realities those resolutions are context-specific and limited to be credible, legitimate and effective. Consequently, to addressing the challenges related to COVID-19 when considering preventive diplomacy, either suo vaccines in conflict-affected regions. Vaccination is moto or through the recommendation of the Secretarythe best hope for humankind to emerge successfully General, Member States have to be convinced that the from the pandemic. India has shared its experiences, decision taken by the Council is impartial and carefully expertise and resources with the global community in considered and is not just a political tool. Only then will this collective battle. preventive diplomacy be effective or even accepted by all Member States. The year 2021 has been a defining moment in the history of the world. We remain committed to upholding Secondly, the United Nations has several principal the rules-based international order, underpinned by organs, with clearly defined roles and functions. Issues international law and premised upon respect for the of social and economic significance are to be primarily sovereignty and territorial integrity of all Member dealt with by the General Assembly, not the Security States, the resolution of international disputes through Council. We need to, where necessary, reform the other peaceful negotiations, and free and open access for all organs to make them more effective and also promote to the global commons. cooperative functionalism between the principal organs of the United Nations. The tendency to burden the Mrs. Thomas-Greenfield (United States of Council with an increasing number of global challenges America): I thank you, Madam President, for hosting premised on their perceived connection to threats to this important discussion today, and I thank President peace and security will be self-defeating. Robinson and Foreign Minister Brahimi for their Thirdly, the world continues to be confronted with briefings. I also welcome President Johnson-Sirleaf and peace and security challenges, exacerbated by the President Zedillo to our discussion today. ongoing coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic. The work of The Elders to resolve and prevent Contemporary security challenges are not limited to conflict is as urgent now as ever. The experience, the territorial or political disputes but transcend physical guidance, the sage advice, the respect that they bring or political boundaries. To address new and emerging are appreciated by the Council and by the world. challenges, we need coordinated and concerted Eight decades ago we came together to, in the words action across borders. In that regard, strengthening of the Charter of the United Nations, “save succeeding partnerships and enhancing linkages between the generations from the scourge of war” and “reaffirm United Nations and regional organizations is absolutely faith in fundamental human rights”. Nothing like this critical. With their deep knowledge of local factors and had ever succeeded before on this scale in the course complexities, regional and subregional organizations are of human history. There was every reason to believe uniquely placed to contribute to finding better solutions that we might fail to unite, and yet, beginning with the to conflicts in their respective regions. We have seen United Nations Charter and the Universal Declaration of situations where the Council’s decisions are at variance Human Rights and building from there, we exchanged with how regional groups decide. “might makes right” for a new set of self-binding Fourthly, the continuing acts of terrorism and the principles — principles that steered us to prevent expansion of terrorist groups continue to pose serious conflict, alleviate human suffering, defend human rights challenges to the maintenance of international peace and engage in an ongoing dialogue to improve the lives and security. India’s Minister for External Affairs, of all people. 10/23 21-24395 07/09/2021 Maintenance of international peace and securityS/PV.8850 The results are undeniable. Since the foundation of (resolution 2532 (2020)) and for greater cooperation to the United Nations, there have been fewer large-scale bring vaccines to conflict areas (resolution 2565 (2021)), conflicts than at any point in history. We have advanced and we need to speak out in cases where these resolutions global non-proliferation and prevented nuclear war. We need to be implemented, such as in Burma, where have enshrined human rights protections and established continued violence is crippling the pandemic response. them as foundational tenets of international law, and Like the COVID-19 pandemic, the climate crisis we have promoted sustainable development, provided threatens all of us too. In the United States, just in the life-saving humanitarian aid, and worked to improve the past few weeks, we have experienced extreme wildfires lives of people around the world. in California, devastating hurricanes in my own home The Security Council has operated at the very state of Louisiana, and dangerous floods here in New centre of that work. We know as well as anyone how York, in our neighbourhoods. Of course, we are far from imperfect this body can be, but it is among the best tools alone. The world is experiencing monsoons and droughts, we have to confront the great challenges before us. And rising sea levels and toxic air pollution. Climate change right now, we are seized of a range of global threats that is a challenge for every person in every nation on every know no boundaries. Today I will focus on three of the continent, which is why at President Biden’s summit on most pertinent: the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) climate, he advanced efforts to tackle the climate crisis. pandemic, the climate crisis and the global erosion of He announced our target to reduce emissions by 50 per human rights. All three were mentioned by President cent below the 2005 levels by 2030 and achieve net-zero Robinson in her statement. emissions by 2050. Together we need to do everything The COVID-19 pandemic has spared no nation. we can to keep the goal of the 1.5°C limit on global It has stressed our global health systems, destabilized average temperature rise within reach. economies and killed more than 4 million people around The impacts of climate change also pose a threat the world, including more than 600,000 Americans. to peace and security. At its current pace, the climate And as we all know, the impacts go beyond the disease crisis is set to drive millions from their homes, and itself. Economies have suffered; instability has spread; many of the world most fragile States and regions are gender-based violence has spiked; and millions of the most vulnerable to climate calamity. In the Security children, especially young girls, have been forced to Council, we are delighted to have joined earlier this stay home from school, and far too many may not return. year the Group of Friends on Climate and Security More girls have been pressed into forced marriages. and have been working with other like-minded nations Childhood pregnancies have increased, and a high toward highlighting the security implications of the degree of prevalence of HIV/AIDS among young girls climate crisis. has occurred. We need to stop this virus, and we need to stop it now. Finally, I want to talk about human rights. From the first sentence of the United Nations Charter, the For our part, President Biden has committed the foundational unit of the United Nations is not just the United States to serving as the arsenal of vaccinations. nation State, but it is also the human “State”. Universal We have already donated more than 126 million human rights are core to the Organization’s project, doses of safe and effective COVID-19 vaccines to but too often our inalienable rights are seen as optional countries around the world, and in particular to lowto aspirations. Systemic racism, regular targeting of the middle-income countries and the African Union. We LGBTQIA+ community and persistent discrimination have provided these vaccines with no strings attached, against religious minorities, people with disabilities and we have provided more than all other countries and women and girls continue in every country around combined, with many more doses to come. In addition, the world. The United States is committed to meeting we are advancing major initiatives in partnership with our human rights obligations and ending discrimination many other Security Council members to expand vaccine in all its forms. To that end, in July, the United States production, improve access to vaccines and life-saving announced its intent to issue a formal standing invitation treatments and strengthen health-care systems. to all United Nations experts who report and advise on We believe that the Security Council itself has a key thematic human rights. Looking globally, we are just as role to play in the COVID-19 response. We have already committed to advancing human rights abroad — from adopted resolutions calling for a global ceasefire Afghanistan to Ethiopia to Yemen. Most recently, the 21-2439511/23 S/PV.8850 Maintenance of international peace and security 07/09/2021 Security Council reaffirmed that the human rights of The present system of international relations is all Afghans, including women and girls and members going through a period of deep-rooted transformation. A of minority groups, must be upheld (resolution 2593 multipolar world order is being established. In global and (2021)). Only through promoting the rights of the regional affairs, new centres of economic development Afghan people can we lay the groundwork for a stable, are raising their profile. This is an objective trend. secure and inclusive Afghanistan at peace with itself. At the same time, we have to note that, of late, We support efforts by The Elders to advise on Ethiopia, instead of establishing equal cooperation, we have seen and we support the appointment of President Obasanjo attempts to artificially divide countries by rank into as a special envoy for the Horn of Africa. those that are allegedly behaving correctly and those that Some countries, including some members of the are breaking the rules. At the same time, the advocates of Security Council or those that seek to be on the Security the so-called rules-based order often fail to explain what Council, believe human rights are optional. They are specifically these rules are and why they are necessary, not. This dangerous notion flies in the face of the selfgiven that we already have instruments of international binding principles that serve as the bedrock for the law, including, first and foremost, the United Nations United Nations. Any efforts to rollback human rights Charter, which sets forth clear obligations for States. w protections in the Security Council, including efforts We see in such actions an effort to monopolize to limit human rights monitoring and reporting, will be the formulation of important decisions for the met with the strongest possible opposition from us. international community and a desire to impose on As we do this work of protecting human rights, everyone else their vision of the further development of stopping the pandemic and fighting the climate crisis, international relations. we welcome the wisdom and the guidance of The Elders. Even more regrettable are the attempts to present Their contributions are invaluable. As we face the great the ideology developed by a group of specific States as challenges of our times, we can use all the help we a guiding compass for all humankind. These values are can get from The Elders to rally the Security Council then promoted as a counterweight to any other ideas and the United Nations towards a more peaceful and about the world order or the make-up of other sovereign prosperous world. States. Those that do not agree face sanctions or even the use of force. This sort of patronizing approach serves Ms. Evstigneeva (Russian Federation) (spoke only to further divide the international community. in Russian): We welcome the briefings by the Moreover, as practice has shown, it leads neither to representatives of The Elders at today’s Security Council resolving urgent issues that affect all States without meeting. No one can doubt the need to strengthen the exception nor to settling conflicts, many of which have multilateral foundations of international relations or the lasted for decades and resulted in the loss of hundreds importance of protecting and developing them at the of thousands of lives. world’s central global negotiating platform, namely, the United Nations, and particularly its Security Council. We firmly believe that genuine multilateralism is We listened very closely to their assessments. They are based on mutually respectful and equal cooperation interesting because, in their time, the briefers also had among all States, built upon a de-politicized foundation the opportunity to work on the tasks facing the United free of ideology. That is the only way to strengthen mutual Nations. Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, Elder Emeritus, made a trust, improve the international relations environment contribution to resolving complex crises in Afghanistan, and ensure the predictability of humankind’s Iraq and Syria, and to developing new approaches in development in the face of global challenges. In our the sphere of United Nations peacekeeping. Mrs. Mary opinion, focusing on judging whose values are better or Robinson, Chair of The Elders, is a recognized guide worse is unproductive. We should simply acknowledge in the promotion of human rights in her homeland the existence of other values, accept them for what they and around the world. We note her principled stand are and take them into account. on many issues. We also welcome the presence in the Decisions will be more robust and viable if they are Chamber today of the other representatives of The developed by everyone on whom their implementation Elders, Mrs. Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf and President depends. In that regard, we must strive to pool our Ernesto Zedillo. efforts and achieve the broadest possible agreement. The 12/23 21-24395 07/09/2021 Maintenance of international peace and securityS/PV.8850 United Nations, the General Assembly and the Security and continue to evolve. From mid-March 2020 to the Council are universal platforms that are genuinely end of May 2021, the Security Council worked mostly multilateral. Their authority is recognized by all. We virtually. We managed to work through the most trying believe that the solution to many of today’s problems times of the pandemic, adopt resolutions and other lies in strengthening their central role in international products, doing our best to deal with conflicts around affairs, rather than seeking alternatives. the globe. In taking into account the division of labour We remain worried at seeing the deteriorating enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, the human rights situation around the world, most notably Security Council plays a singular role in dealing with in Tigray, Belarus and Afghanistan. It remains our matters of international peace and security. We are task to uphold the Charter and promote and encourage convinced that, despite the breadth of its agenda, issues respect for human rights, while holding the perpetrators related to conflict resolution should always remain at the accountable. I would be glad to hear the briefers share core of the Council’s deliberations. It is well known that their ideas on how we as a Council could better help the we are cautious about bringing items before the Council people in Tigray. that are only indirectly related to its core mandate and could be addressed more appropriately within other The main purpose of the Security Council is to United Nations forums. maintain international peace and security. When bombs have already exploded and people have lost lives, it is We believe that Council decisions must always take already too late for us. Prevention and preparedness into account the principles of non-intervention and the are the key, instead of dealing with the consequences. sovereign equality of States enshrined in the Charter. There is an abundance of information for us to act upon. Using the Council against legitimate Governments We must be able to find common ground quicker than that have found disfavour with others is unacceptable. before. It can save lives. The experience of recent decades has repeatedly demonstrated that such steps have never brought about In order to remain relevant and fulfil its responsibility peace or prosperity to people. in upholding international peace and security, the Security Council needs to address new and emerging In conclusion, we urge our fellow Council members security threats. The world is changing, and the Security to always strive to reach solutions that strike a mutually Council must change with it. Over the past years, we acceptable balance, while considering one another’s have seen how malicious cyberactivities targeting oil interests. That is simply imperative if we are to overcome infrastructure and the food and health-care sectors — our the crisis of confidence that is apparent to everyone. For most basic and critical services — can pose a real and our part, we affirm that Russia is committed to open, tangible threat. The humanitarian effects of tampering honest and equitable dialogue and readiness to seek with critical infrastructure could be devastating. common ground. As the threats emanating from the malicious Mr. Jürgenson (Estonia): I thank the use of cyberspace have become more apparent and briefers — President Mary Robinson and Mr. Lakhdar wide-ranging, there is a clear need that States should Brahimi — for their insights. implement the framework of responsible State behaviour The United Nations was created with the future in and comply with international law. In June, during the mind. The Charter of the United Nations established a Estonian presidency of the Security Council, the Council system of values, legal principles and political tools to held its very first open debate dedicated to maintaining maintain international peace and security and promote peace and security in cyberspace (see S/2021/621), and it and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms. is important that the Council remain seized of the matter. The same values and legal principles agreed upon 76 Lastly, multilateralism and the advancement years ago remain just as valid today. of international law are indispensable to tackling The past two years have been very challenging emerging global threats. Multilateralism can function for the world. The pandemic has interrupted our lives, in a meaningful fashion only within a rules-based sometimes dividing us on topics on which we have been international order. Strong leadership, backed by the most in need of unity. The pandemic has highlighted collective decisions of the United Nations, including how the Security Council must keep up with the time here in the Security Council, is needed to ensure that we 21-2439513/23 S/PV.8850 Maintenance of international peace and security 07/09/2021 stand up to take on this task. We agree with the Secretaryimpose unilateral coercive measures has no basis in law, General that multilateralism must be more inclusive and defies reason and is an affront to common decency. more networked and place human rights at its core. In The way the situation in Afghanistan has transpired order for that to happen, we also need to protect and recently is proof that foreign military intervention and assist in the creation of a safe and diverse civil society the imposition of a so-called democratic transformation space, which is vital for resilient communities. programme does nothing to help solve any issues, instead Mr. Dai Bing (China) (spoke in Chinese): I thank creating more problems with failure as the inevitable Mary Robinson, Chair of The Elders, and Mr. Lakhdar outcome. The frantic and disorganized withdrawal of Brahimi for their briefings. I welcome the presence of troops from Afghanistan by the countries concerned has former Presidents Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf and Ernesto plunged Kabul into chaos and upheaval. It has created a Zedillo among us. major humanitarian disaster and left the Afghan people to pick up the many pieces. We urge the countries The maintenance of international peace and security concerned to honour their commitment to the peaceful is the primary responsibility of the Security Council reconstruction of Afghanistan rather than pass the buck under the Charter of the United Nations. The international to its neighbours and the wider international community. security landscape today is fraught with challenges and the complexity of both traditional and non-traditional In the face of terrorism, climate change and other security issues. The ongoing coronavirus disease non-traditional security threats, the international (COVID-19) pandemic has exacerbated uncertainty and community must uphold genuine multilateralism, instability with regard to peace and security. strengthen coordination and work together to address those challenges. Twenty years after the attacks In order to achieve lasting peace and universal of 11 September, the threat of terrorism facing the security while faced by these global challenges, it international community has not been eliminated is imperative to uphold genuine multilateralism and for good. Combating terrorism in all its forms and translate it into practice. Our shared priority remains manifestation remains the common responsibility of the combating the pandemic in unity and solidarity. international community. Double standards and selective COVID-19 is not just a threat to the entire human race counter-terrorism are the dominant forms of interference that puts our lives and individual and public health in in international counter-terrorism cooperation. We must jeopardy; it also has the potential to enable and accelerate reject and refuse such interference. the breeding of terrorism and extremism. Climate change is an existential threat to our collective Universal vaccine access is a touchstone of the survival and development. The international community effectiveness of multilateralism. Today, vaccines are has forged important consensus on principles such as very hard to come by in many developing countries, common but differentiated responsibilities, equity and while some developed countries are still hoarding them respective capabilities, as well as developing important in much greater numbers than they need. Those vaccines frameworks for cooperation such as the United Nations are left sitting in storage as their expiry dates lapse. Framework Convention on Climate Change and the China calls on those countries to put an end to vaccine Paris Agreement on Climate Change. It remains for us nationalism and to contribute to global vaccine access to work together to translate that consensus into action. and equitable distribution in a tangible way. Developed countries in particular must effectively fulfil Pushing for the political settlement of regional their commitments and help developing countries to hotspot issues is the core mandate of the Security meet the challenges they face in terms of financing, technology and capacity-building. Council. Many such issues on the Council’s agenda are at a critical stage and it is imperative that we resort to This year marks the fiftieth anniversary of the genuine multilateralism; respect the sovereignty and restoration of the lawful seat of the People’s Republic of independence of all countries and the development China in the United Nations. In the five decades since, path chosen by their peoples of their own free will; and China has supported and practised real multilateralism, promote, through good offices and mediation, dialogue lending consistent, sustained and dependable support and consultation among the parties to overcome their to the United Nations. Going forward, we have the differences. Circumventing the Security Council to confidence and the ability to make even greater 14/23 21-24395 07/09/2021 Maintenance of international peace and securityS/PV.8850 contributions to the maintenance of global peace global ceasefire in the context of united efforts to fight and security. the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Kiboino (Kenya): I commend Ireland for In that regard, how best can the Council engage and convening this meeting and I sincerely thank our briefers, implement recommendations in resolution 2532 (2020) Mrs. Mary Robinson and Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi. At the and resolution 2565 (2021) to support calls for increased same time, we welcome the former President of Liberia, global solidarity and cooperation in vaccine rollouts, Mrs. Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, and the former President of to address misinformation and disinformation and to Mexico, Mr. Ernesto Zedillo Ponce. prepare for the next pandemic, especially in fragile and conflict-affected countries? It is indeed a great honour to have this opportunity to listen to the views and perspectives from the individual For the world as a whole, is there room, in The and collective wisdom of The Elders, particularly in Elders’ estimations, for an international treaty to frame our increasingly interwoven and fragile world. In his rules, norms and principles to guide the multilateral inaugural speech of 18 July 2007, which launched the system through pandemics, recognizing that pandemics formation of that eminent group of leaders, President also have implications for the sustainability of global Nelson Mandela noted that the core responsibility peace and development? of The Elders is to analyse problems, seek solutions, Secondly, there is an urgent need for multilateral search out partners and infuse “new energy where consensus around the nexus between international others have become weary”. The Elders’ experience, peace and security and climate change. It is no longer based on decades of raising awareness and dealing with tenable, in our view, to underestimate the devastating global challenges to peace and security both publicly effects of climate change as both an underlying cause and through private diplomacy brings a much-needed and a multiplier of conflicts and insecurity globally. I vantage point to this platform. would therefore like to hear from The Elders on what For years, the Council has been considering innovative approaches are necessary for the United situations where decisions have to be urgently and Nations in general and the Security Council in particular strategically made regarding the long-standing and to engage with the level of seriousness needed to address emerging international security issues on its agenda. the impact of the climate crisis in Africa, small island Yet never, especially in recent years, have effective States and the world over. multilateral solutions and affirmation of the purposes Thirdly, even as we commemorate the twentieth and principles of the Charter of the United Nations been anniversary of the adoption of resolution 1373 (2001), so sorely needed as they are today. That is why Kenya terrorism and violent extremism remain existential appreciates the important role of The Elders. threats to international peace and security. It would The global challenges with implications for seem that as battles are being won, political struggles international peace and security are many and well are, at the same time, being lost. Goals that once seemed known to all of us. I will seek the insights of The attainable in addressing the threat of violent extremism Elders, time allowing, on how the Security Council can and terrorism are seemingly out of immediate reach. respond effectively to three threats, some of which have Kenya has persistently called for the listing, without already been mentioned by the Chair of The Elders in exception, of acknowledged terrorist groups, such as her briefing. Al-Shabaab, under the Council’s sanctions regimes, First, the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic including resolution 1267 (1999). From the assessment has dramatically showcased the interconnectedness of of The Elders, how should the multilateral system reconfigure itself, in terms of preparedness and the our world. It has exposed State vulnerabilities, revealed response to the intractable threat of terrorism? How can stark inequalities within our societies and unveiled multilateral approaches be better utilized to mitigate latent weaknesses within international institutions. against opportunities on which terrorist and militant Back in 2014, we saw quick and determined efforts by groups increasingly capitalize to reinvigorate globally? both the Security Council and the General Assembly to deal with the Ebola crisis. However, it took three As I conclude, I note that today’s useful engagement months for the Council to agree on resolution 2532 with The Elders is a sober reminder of the need (2020) to support the Secretary-General’s call for a for Governments to take responsibility and for the 21-2439515/23 S/PV.8850 Maintenance of international peace and security 07/09/2021 international community to decide how best to empower to ensure that during the next comprehensive review, multilateral institutions, including the United Nations, measures are strengthened to prevent non-State actors to lead global responses to present and future crises. from gaining access to weapons of mass destruction. We Nothing less than a stronger, agile and robust ruleshope to be able to count on the support of delegations. based multilateral system will be able to rise to the task. The Security Council must pay greater attention Mr. De la Fuente Ramírez (Mexico) (spoke in to the threat posed by small arms and light weapons. Spanish): I thank you, Madam President, for convening That is why, during Mexico’s presidency of the Council, today’s session. I thank the former President of Ireland, we will propose an analysis of measures to restrict the Mrs. Robinson, and the former Foreign Minister of irresponsible transfer of such weapons, which stoke Algeria, Mr. Brahimi, for their remarks. conflicts wherever they occur. It would be very valuable to hear any recommendations The Elders may have on We also warmly welcome former President of that point in particular. Liberia, Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, and former President of Mexico, Ernesto Zedillo, to the Council. Thirdly, it is undeniable that climate change, as with nuclear weapons, is a threat to the very survival of Mexico thanks The Elders for sharing their humankind. It is also irrefutable that climate change can experience and wisdom in the quest for solutions to the exacerbate existing conflicts. We see that in regions, major issues plaguing the international community. I such as the Sahel and the Horn of Africa, as well as in must say that in the millennial culture of my country, Latin America and the Caribbean. The recent passage of older people are often acknowledged for their wisdom Tropical Storm Grace in Haiti compounded the impact and the popular advice is that they should be listened to. of the earthquake that hit the sisterly nation amid its I will limit my statement to three areas, which my ongoing political challenges. Countries such as Haiti delegation deems to be important for the Council, and to and other small island developing States deserve greater a brief word on the need to strengthen multilateralism to attention from the Council. ensure that it is more effective. Allow me to conclude by referring to a necessary First, with regard to human rights, democracy and precondition to address the challenges that I mentioned, gender equality, the Council must not only support as well as other challenges that have been mentioned the efforts of the international community; it must here today, which are a constant concern to us. How can also prevent any rollback of achievements already we make multilateralism more effective? There have made. We must therefore support actions that foster been numerous occasions when the Council has not been a return to democracy in Myanmar and not allow the up to the task of fulfilling its mandate under the Charter progress made in Afghanistan to be overturned. As we of the United Nations. Its slow response to the pandemic have stated, together with Ireland, as co-Chairs of the is an example. There are those who continue to believe Informal Expert Group on Women, Peace and Security, that pandemics are not a matter of international security. the Security Council must remain united so as to reject When such views prevail — through the misnamed right any threat to the rights of Afghan women and girls, and to veto, which is more than a right, but rather a delicate stress the full, equal and meaningful participation of responsibility — there is an increased risk of the women in any new Afghan Government. Council becoming an irrelevant organ. Paralysing the Council during major crises undermines its authority Secondly, disarmament remains an issue that affects and relevance. the fate of humankind. The former Secretary-General and member of The Elders, Ban Ki-moon, rightly stated It is paradoxical that, at national level, the majority that there are no right hands for the wrong weapons. That of States believe that decisions should be taken by a is precisely the premise of the Treaty on the Prohibition simple or qualified majority, depending on the case. In of Nuclear Weapons. The Security Council must support the Council, however, if just one of the five permanent multilateral processes, such as the Review Conference members so decides, it is possible to hamstring the will of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of not only of the majority of the members of the Council, Nuclear Weapons, the denuclearization of the Korean but of the international community. As has already been peninsula and a Middle East free of all weapons of mass said here, the environment that prevailed 76 years ago destruction. As Chair of the Committee established does not match that of 2021. Therefore, we again call on pursuant to resolution 1540 (2004), Mexico will strive the permanent members of the Security Council to join 16/23 21-24395 07/09/2021 Maintenance of international peace and securityS/PV.8850 the French-Mexican initiative and refrain from using the Civilians, especially children and women, remain at the right to veto when there is a risk of mass atrocity crimes top of the list of victims of violence, acts of aggression being committed. Indeed, the General Assembly must and various kinds of violations, while other regions act when the Council is paralysed. witness alternating periods of stability and insecurity that sometimes turn into armed conflicts obliterating We therefore welcome the fact in the light of a the peace gains previously achieved. Also, some other crisis, such as the pandemic, 179 countries co-sponsored situations can be classified as neither war nor peace. resolution 74/274, spearheaded by Mexico in April last year, which promotes just, transparent and equitable All these situations are marred by tension and access to the vaccines, which we all knew would soon anticipation, draining the capabilities and energies emerge. However, that resolution was not binding. of the countries and peoples concerned, disrupting Today, 17 months later, we continue to emphasize that, in their development paths and requiring great effort and order to overcome the pandemic, we must distribute the follow-up from the United Nations. Most such situations vaccines more quickly, more fairly and more efficiently. are accompanied by human suffering and human rights violations. In conclusion, it is imperative that the Security Council play a more active role in conflict prevention. That outcome motivates us to intensify and unify However, there is a reluctance for the Council to address efforts within the Security Council and work to make it issues that may not yet pose a threat to international more effective in its handling of these various situations peace and security at the time but could become such a and the enforcement of its resolutions. It also prompts us threat. That limits its ability to act preventively. It would to question how we can make the Council more efficient be very interesting to know the views of The Elders in in its role, especially with regard to the mandatory that regard. implementation of its resolutions, conflict prevention, conflict settlement and ending the suffering of millions Mr. Ladeb (Tunisia) (spoke in Arabic): At the of people. outset, I would like to commend Ireland for choosing to dedicate today’s Council’s meeting to hearing the views We need an objective diagnosis of the Security of The Elders, that exceptional group of international Council’s performance so that we can develop leaders and actors who dedicate their vast expertise appropriate solutions. Here, I address the members and rich experiences to the service of peace, justice and of The Elders, seeking their opinion in that regard, human rights. especially in the light of the exacerbation of threats and challenges to international peace and security, I would like to thank Mrs. Mary Robinson and such as terrorism, climate change, natural disasters, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi for their valuable briefings, as well health pandemics, cyberthreats and weapons of mass as to welcome the other members of The Elders present destruction, in addition to the complexity of existing with us, namely, Mrs. Johnson-Sirleaf and Mr. Zedillo. crises and conflicts and the emergence of new ones. The Security Council is currently considering a In that context, the Council may need to develop new large number of conflict and tension situations in the working mechanisms and approaches in order to be world, including what is new and what has been on its able to address those various challenges. Here, too, I agenda for several years and even decades, especially the would like to hear the opinion of the members of The Palestinian question, during which thousands of victims Elders on the role that the Security Council can play in have fallen, along with destruction and violations. dealing with such new threats, especially in the absence of consensus among its members about whether all of Despite the Security Council addressing these them fall within its competence. That was proved by the issues periodically, even monthly sometimes, and long negotiations to adopt resolution 2532 (2020), on the despite the huge number of resolutions that have coronavirus disease. been adopted on these issues, the paths of political settlement that have been launched and the United The members of the Security Council unanimously Nations peacekeeping missions that have been created agree on the strategic importance of cooperation and and their mandates extended, in addition to the repeated complementarity between the Security Council and calls of the Secretary-General for a ceasefire, the regional organizations. Despite the ongoing regular issue of achieving peace and establishing international consultations in that area, the prevailing impression security is still elusive in many regions and situations. remains that such cooperation has not reached the 21-2439517/23 S/PV.8850 Maintenance of international peace and security 07/09/2021 desired level, especially in the African continent and First, conflict prevention ought to be at the core of the Arab region, which witness the largest number the work of the Security Council. The Council should of issues on the Security Council’s agenda and host utilize all the tools at its disposal to contribute to the highest number of United Nations peacekeeping prevention, post-conflict recovery and sustaining peace missions. I would therefore like to pose a question to efforts. Peacekeepers require our continued support the members of The Elders: How do you envisage more and resources to fulfil their mandates in increasingly effective cooperation and the sharing of roles between complex and evolving situations. We must foster a sense the members of the Security Council and regional of ownership among Governments and local authorities, organizations, particularly given the long duration of especially in post-conflict and reconstruction. many issues on the Council’s agendas as the situations Secondly, in order to make the multilateral system continue to deteriorate in many conflict regions? work more efficiently, responsively and in synergy, I would like to once again thank the President reforms are a prerequisite. The Security Council is of the Council for organizing this meeting and the no exception. It is critical to enhance its transparency, members of The Elders for their rich contribution to democracy, representativeness and effectiveness. Its today’s discussion. solidarity and unity must always be prioritized. Mr. Dang (Viet Nam): Let me start by thanking We must also support the complementary role of the Irish presidency for convening this meeting to regional organizations, such as the African Union, allow a candid dialogue with The Elders. We commend in maintaining international and regional peace and the efforts of The Elders and highly value their ideas security. In our region, the Association of Southeast and insights on issues related to the mandate of the Asian Nations has affirmed its centrality in the Security Council. regional security architecture, including in conflict prevention and resolution and addressing regional and During our presidencies in January 2020 and international issues. April 2021, Viet Nam had opportunities to invite the Chair and the Deputy Chair of The Elders to brief the At the national level, we need a whole-ofSecurity Council on the topics of upholding the Charter Government approach that engages the local community, of the United Nations with regard to the maintenance fosters public-private cooperation and supports the of international peace and security (see S/PV.8699) most vulnerable. The multilateral approach, which and cooperation with regional organizations (see entails national capacity-building assistance, is of the S/2021/394), respectively. utmost necessity. At no time has humankind been confronted Thirdly, I agree that the Council should not let with such complex global challenges as nowadays. new challenges to international peace and security fly International and internal armed conflicts, the arms under its radar. The Charter of the United Nations lays race, the existence and proliferation of weapons of the timeless foundation for an international order that mass destruction, terrorism, transnational organized serves the interests of the international community. Our crime, poverty, climate change and pandemics are collective and individual actions must fully abide by some examples. and uphold international law and the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. As the world that we inhabit is increasingly globalized and interconnected, we are only as strong as In that connection, I would like to ask The Elders our weakest link. We firmly believe that multilateralism what in their view are practical measures to enhance the based on international law and the collective work of Council’s efficiency in tackling new challenges while the United Nations, the Member States and all other maintaining unity and inclusivity. stakeholders is our most effective response to those Mr. De Rivière (France) (spoke in French): I take challenges. Multilateralism serves both to cure and to this opportunity to recall that France joined the African prevent the world’s predicaments. Union and the Economic Community of West African I listened with great attention to Mrs. Robinson and States in condemning the events that took place in Mr. Brahimi’s insightful briefings and thank them for Guinea on 5 September and in calling for a return to their wise words and recommendations. In that regard, I constitutional order and for the release of President wish to underline the following points. Condé. That crisis is emblematic of the importance of 18/23 21-24395 07/09/2021 Maintenance of international peace and securityS/PV.8850 regional organizations, which the Security Council must Making optimal use of the tools at our disposal is take into account in fulfilling its mandate. one thing, but we must also see together how we can go beyond that. France is committed to Security Council I thank Mrs. Robinson and Mr. Brahimi for their reform in order to strengthen its authority and its briefings. Through them, I commend the work done by representativeness while preserving its decision-making The Elders for international peace and security. We are character. We support its expansion in both categories fully in agreement with them. The world needs strong of membership and an increased presence for Africa. multilateralism and an effective Security Council. That is We also call on all Member States, in particular the essential to meet the challenges of our time. Collectively, we must think about how to act more effectively. permanent members of the Security Council, to join the initiative that we have put forward, together with As members of the Security Council, the guarantor Mexico, for the voluntary and collective suspension of of international peace and security, we must make full the use of the veto in cases of mass atrocities. use of the tools at our disposal. The mandates we give to the United Nations are a valuable tool. I commend the We can also expand our response. That is the objective work of the Special Representatives of the Secretaryof the project that the countries of the Sahel, France and General and the 80,000 Blue Helmets deployed in their partners are promoting through the Coalition for dangerous areas in the Central African Republic, in the Sahel. It seeks to respond to all the dimensions of the Mali and South Sudan. In Afghanistan, the United crisis: the fight against terrorism, the strengthening of Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan is playing a military capabilities, the redeployment of Government fundamental role alongside humanitarian agencies in a services, and humanitarian and development efforts. critical context. That role must continue. The European Union fully supports those efforts. The United Nations must do more. Our unity is a condition for the success of United Nations action. We demonstrated that unity in 2011 in Responding to crises also means fighting impunity the case of Côte d’Ivoire, a country that is now well and ensuring respect for human rights and international on its way to reconciliation. In Libya, peace is within humanitarian law. We call on all Member States to join reach. Our support for the holding of parliamentary the call for humanitarian action that we have launched and presidential elections on 24 December is essential with Germany. for stability and reconciliation. With respect to Syria, I Lastly, the most effective tool for addressing crises call on the Security Council to set aside its differences is prevention. Prevention means identifying tomorrow’s to finally resolve the conflict, in accordance with crises. It also means containing threats before they resolution 2254 (2015). escalate. For example, we provided a collective response Peace cannot be achieved without genuine to the coronavirus disease with resolutions 2532 (2020) equality between women and men or without the and 2565 (2021), which must be implemented as a matter effective participation of women and young people of urgency. in decision-making. The $10 billion mobilized at the We also know that the consequences of global Generation Equality Forum in Paris in July must warming are unprecedented. If that issue is better contribute to that. reflected in our resolutions, its impact on international In the current environment, the integrity of the peace and security must truly become a central element existing non-proliferation norms must be maintained. of our response to crises. At the heart of those norms is the Treaty on the The President: I shall now make a statement in my Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. That requires a capacity as the representative of Ireland. strong and united response to proliferation, including by working hard to promote the mutual return of the United First, I want to thank The Elders for being here States and Iran to compliance with their commitments with us today. President Robinson’s and Elder Emeritus under the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, agreed Brahimi’s briefings today were both important and in 2015 in Vienna. That also requires working on the alarming. I also thank former Presidents Johnson-Sirleaf complete, verifiable and irreversible denuclearization of and Zedillo for their presence with us today. The North Korea. Those are the conditions for a world free Security Council needs the wisdom, clarity and courage of nuclear weapons with undiminished security for all. that their messages convey. 21-2439519/23 S/PV.8850 Maintenance of international peace and security 07/09/2021 Mary Robinson and Lakhdar Brahimi have called compounding other drivers of conflict such as poverty our attention to the deep challenges we face, the and inequality to undermine stability in regions such as challenges we often struggle to recognize and the the Sahel and the Horn of Africa. If we fail to face up to challenges we have many times failed to address. In their the realities, the destabilizing effects of climate change calls, they recognize a common inescapable reality: the will eventually be felt in all countries. challenges we face are too great and too global for any We are using our presidency this month to consider one country — whether a small island like my own or the concrete steps that the Council can take in response a global super-Power of which several are represented to climate security risks. We must put the necessary at this table — to overcome alone. That is why we all systems in place to allow the Council to take account of sit together in this symbolic horseshoe, looking across the adverse impacts of climate change in the delivery of at each other, talking about working together and not its mandate. always succeeding in doing so. Like many around this table and around the world, I Time and again we pay lip service to the imperative am inspired by the work and wisdom of The Elders. For of unity of purpose and to the need for the Security me, as an Irish woman, the words of Ireland’s former Council to listen to other voices — the voices of regional President Mary Robinson have particular resonance. organizations and of influential and experienced actors, Many have mentioned the crisis in Afghanistan today. such as The Elders. Their messages today drive home With the plight of women and girls in Afghanistan the truth that we are bound together by our inaction, foremost in my mind in recent weeks, I am reminded as well as by the responsibility for the consequences of of something that former President Robinson once said: that inaction. “In a society where the rights and potential of The inescapable reality is that multilateralism must women are constrained, no man can be truly free. He be at the heart of how we seek to deal with our global may have power, but he will not have freedom.” challenges, not least to the threats to international peace and security. That was the ambitious vision of the The Council will continue its urgent consideration drafters of the Charter in 1945, with the almost unbridled of the situation in Afghanistan in the debate to be held optimism that their determination to work together could on Thursday and in the negotiation of the mandate for save succeeding generations from the scourge of war. the United Nations Mission in Afghanistan. As we do That is actually the momentous responsibility placed on so, I call on the Council to do everything in its power the shoulders of the Council every day, and that is the to promote and protect the human rights of the brave clarion call that we heard this morning from The Elders. women of Afghanistan. A key measure of the new dispensation in Kabul will be how it treats its women For a small country such as Ireland, multilateralism and girls. is in our DNA. We are a global island, deeply connected in everything we do. It is at the core of how we approach Afghanistan is but one of the many crises that the international peace and security. It is expressed in our Council is grappling with. From Ethiopia to Yemen, to commitment to the Blue Helmets of United Nations Haiti and Syria, we must work together on collective peacekeeping. It is expressed in our commitment to responses to increasingly complex challenging promoting disarmament in Ireland’s foreign policy, and circumstances. The promotion of respect for human it is grounded in our lived experience of conflict — an rights, including the protection of civil-society space experience that continues to teach us that for peace and of human rights defenders, must lie at the heart of processes to be sustainable, they must be inclusive, our commitment to those and other countries in crisis. ensuring that the voices of the most vulnerable, often It is a lesson hard learned that we in the Security women and other marginalized groups, are not only Council simply cannot afford to be divided on issues that heard but listened to. Our commitment to multilateralism require urgent action. If and when we are divided, the is matched by our courage to defend it. vulnerable in fragile contexts suffer the consequences. The threats to peace and security have changed since Appeals for a united Council may sound idealistic, but 1945. Today climate change is the defining challenge of that is not merely an ideal. That is a reality for millions of our generation. Its impact is global, and our collective vulnerable people around the world. Those people, many security is at risk. We have heard first-hand in the faced with war, famine or sexual violence in conflict, Council how the negative effects of climate change are are relying on us here in this Chamber to come together 20/23 21-24395 07/09/2021 Maintenance of international peace and securityS/PV.8850 and to act. That is our responsibility, individually and more from Mr. Brahimi and myself in response to the collectively. That was the promise of the Charter in 1945. questions posed, and there may even be more questions. That is still the promise of the Charter in 2021. We know Let me deal with some of them that I felt were very that The Elders are working tirelessly to help realize that much to the point. promise, and we will rely on their encouragement today to fortify our efforts at this table. First, let me touch on early questions posed by the representatives of the United Kingdom and Estonia about I now resume my functions as President of Tigray, specifically about the appointment of former the Council. President Obasanjo as High Representative for the Horn I give the floor to Mrs. Robinson to respond to the of Africa. We certainly welcome that appointment; there questions posed and comments made. is some concern that he may not be as well received on the Tigray side, but, hopefully, that will work. But we Mrs. Robinson: I would like to begin by thanking also, members will recall, in my address this morning, all members of the Security Council for the very warm suggested — and we did this deliberately — a possible way in which they have welcomed the contribution that visit by the Security Council, because if members both Lakhdar Brahimi and I have made, welcomed the visit, they will go to Addis Ababa, and that would give presence of Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf and Ernesto Zedillo, the Security Council the opportunity to link with the and welcomed the work of The Elders. We deeply African Union on this issue in a very, very visible way. appreciate this, because we are very passionate about our work; we are very committed to it, and it is a privilege I am aware that the Security Council has made for us to be able to brief. a number of visits to the Sahel and Lake Chad and a number of visits to countries including the Democratic Members heard not very long ago from Ban Republic of the Congo, when I served with my mandate Ki-moon, now one of my deputies but, obviously, also on the Great Lakes, and that they have not been able to my former boss on at least three mandates, and we recently because of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19). would hope to continue that relationship. We believe But perhaps it would be good if it were possible for the that it actually is an opportunity to discuss and go back Council to consider as early a visit as possible and in a to the fundamentals of the Security Council and to both close dialogue and link with the African Union and its remind members and have them remind one another, efforts in relation to Tigray. because, as I listened, I was actually quite struck by the I was very touched by the fact that the representative strong affirmation of many members in support of the of Kenya spoke of our mandate from Nelson Mandela. importance of a coherent, integrated multilateral system I have those words ringing in my ears at all times. He and the fact that we need that in the world. referenced a number of issues and spoke about the In many ways, I felt that maybe having conversations inequalities of COVID-19, as a number of others did. of this kind or dialogues of this kind with The Elders One of the inequalities that The Elders are particularly from time to time gives members an opportunity to focused on at the moment is the inequitable access to be on their very best behaviour as a Security Council; vaccines, which, in our world today, is quite shocking. indeed, I feel that today they have been on their best Two of The Elders — the two who have not taken behaviour, and that is good, because it shows that they the floor this morning, but who will be with us at have the capacity to perhaps find more in common lunch — are deeply involved with this issue. President than they sometimes do on a daily basis; when they are Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf co-chaired the Independent Panel tackling the weeds of a problem, they may find that it is for Pandemic Preparedness and Response, and President more divisive. Ernesto Zedillo was a member of that Panel. I think that the recommendations of the Panel were very well thought Members asked a number of very relevant and very through especially because it did not see COVID-19 as good questions. I am going to give short answers, not very only a health problem. It is obviously a health problem, adequate ones, probably, at this stage; but, fortunately, but it is also so much more: it is an economic problem, a Madam President, through the generous hosting by political problem and a social problem. That is why we Ireland of a lunch for us afterwards with all four of my urge the General Assembly to adopt a holistic declaration colleagues, you will be able to hear in particular from on COVID-19 because the pandemic is not something Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf and Ernesto Zedillo and hear just for the World Health Organization. It is much more 21-2439521/23 S/PV.8850 Maintenance of international peace and security 07/09/2021 than that. It is for heads of States and Governments to “but how could it not consider it to be so? Climate live up to their responsibilities to address it. Hopefully change is a threat multiplier: with respect to any that will take place shortly during the high-level week at issue, climate change makes things so much worse. the General Assembly. It is an existential threat. How could it not be seen as a security issue?” With regard to the reference to international human rights and democracy and gender equality, I actually That was absolutely the response that I got from wanted to recall that visit to Afghanistan in March 2002 climate scientists. because I wanted to emphasize that human rights are I therefore urge the Council to see climate change as not eastern or western or northern or southern rights. a security issue, and I would urge members, if they do They are fundamental human rights, and every State, come together around a draft resolution, that they make every State represented in this Chamber, has recognized it a strong resolution, because a weak Security Council that. Not only do States Members of the United Nations resolution would not help at all. Since a strong resolution constantly refer in different instruments, such as the is needed, it may take some time for the implications 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, with the for the world to be thought through in terms of really Sustainable Development Goals, to the Universal understanding the threat that is posed by climate change. Declaration of Human Rights, but every country accepts The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has in the Universal Declaration. Most accept one or more of its recent report and in its special report on the impacts the additional covenants or the conventions. This gives of global warming of 1.5°C told the Council in no a collective sense of their importance. uncertain terms some things that Council members can But human rights are also embedded in the culture certainly take on board. of countries, and that is the important message that I was glad that there was a reference to the Nuclear the women of Afghanistan have given us. It was their Non-Proliferation Treaty and to the nuclear issue. As I Charter, not some external Charter. The Charter was said in my briefing, I am pleased that Ireland is raising their Charter. They praised Allah in launching it, which the broad nuclear issue later this month. means that it was in conformity with their culture. Further, a great deal of progress was made in the Perhaps I can end by recognizing that opportunities Constitution, the laws and the policies of the country, such as today’s meeting for the Security Council to stand which have helped at women and girls and increased back a little bit from its very tough agenda — I acknowledge the participation of women and girls in Afghanistan. that it has to deal with very difficult issues and that its I plead with the Security Council — and, as I said members have different national positions — and to earlier, specifically with those countries that will be reflect are good for members’ collective commitment. very actively dealing with the Taliban over the coming Members are not individuals when they come to the months — to remember that we have just marked, as Security Council: they are members of the Security the representative of France said, the holding of the Council, they are the elected 10 and the permanent five, Generation Equality Forum. What would, women and they have to take the opportunity to forge a collective and girls in the world think if we allowed the rights spirit and work together. The world needs them to work that women themselves had secured to be completely as well as they can despite all the deficiencies that abolished by a military takeover, basically a coup, by the have been mentioned, including the composition of this Taliban? It would be extremely shocking. It is therefore body, which is not representative of the real world, and extremely important that we keep that in mind. yet it has great responsibilities and must uphold those responsibilities. I was also very glad that a significant number of Council members made reference to climate change. I I would therefore like to end by simply saying know that we are increasingly having to deal with the that The Elders of course support the restraint on the issue and that there is an informal group co-chaired by veto in cases of mass atrocities, which a number of Ireland on climate and security. Knowing that I had the countries — France, Mexico and other countries — have opportunity to come and speak with the Council briefly been putting forward. We would also like to see other today, I recently asked a number of top climate scientists reforms. Ban Ki-moon has spoken before and to the how they would tell the Security Council to consider Security council about ways in which it can improve, climate change a security issue. They said, including in the way press statements are made. Press 22/23 21-24395 07/09/2021 Maintenance of international peace and securityS/PV.8850 statements should not require unanimity although that The President: I thank President Robinson for has been the required practice until now. her clarifications as well as all of the Elders. I thank I end by again thanking Ireland for inviting us, four Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi and Presidents Zedillo and of us Elders, to sit in the Chamber — two of us given the Johnson-Sirleaf for their presence in the Chamber today. opportunity to speak — and for hosting a lunch that will There are no more names inscribed on the list of allow further discussion about the important areas for speakers. which the United Nations Charter charges the Security Council with responsibility. The meeting rose at 12.15 p.m. 21-2439523/23
